VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-O-2, passed 3-11-2024
State legislation current through 12-31-17
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Ordinance No. 2008-O-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS
AND REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS: The present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Lincoln Heights are insufficient for the complete preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the Village and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS: The Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the Village of Lincoln Heights to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS: Council for the Village of Lincoln Heights has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Village of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS: It is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Village that this Ordinance take effect at an early
date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council for the Village of Lincoln
Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio as follows:
   SECTION I: The general ordinances of the Village of Lincoln Heights as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances” for the Village of
Lincoln Heights.
   SECTION II: Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   LINCOLN HEIGHTS, OHIO
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   CHARTER
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Part One: Administrative Code
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   Village Manager
      32.   Director of Legal Services
      33.   Police Department
      34.   Fire Department
      35.   Boards and Commissions
      36.   Officers and Employees
      37.   Personnel Policies and Procedures
   Part Two
      38.   Village Council
      39.   Taxation and Finance; Funds
      40.   Village Policies
      41.   Disaster and Emergency Planning
      42.   Charter Amendments
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   [Reserved]
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Licensing Provisions
      72.   Traffic Rules
      73.   Motor Vehicle Crimes; Miscellaneous Offenses
      74.   Equipment and Loads
      75.   Bicycles, Motorcycles, and Off-road Vehicles; Toy Vehicles
      76.   Stopping, Standing and Parking
      77.   Traffic Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animals
      91.   Fireworks and Explosives; Fire Prevention
      92.   Intoxicating Liquors
      93.   Nuisances; Junked Vehicles
      94.   Sanitation and Health
      95.   Streets and Sidewalks
      96.   Spot Blight
      97.   Parades, Marches or Processions
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Provisions
      111.   Advertising
      112.   Cable Television
      113.   Commercial Amusements
      114.   Junkyards
      115.   Hotels, Motels and Rooming Houses
      116.   Retirement Communities and Homes
      117.   Taxicabs
      118.   Solicitors and Peddlers
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Provisions
      131.   Offenses Against Property
      132.   Offenses Against Public Peace
      133.   Sex Offenses
      134.   Gambling
      135.   Offenses Against Persons
      136.   Offenses Against Justice and Administration
      137.   Weapons Control
      138.   Drug Offenses
      139.   Miscellaneous
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Building Regulations
      151.   Flood Insurance Program
      152.   Urban Renewal
      153.   Telecommunications, Antenna, Tower and Site Regulations
      154.   Storage of Wood
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Appropriation of Property
      II.   Dedications
      III.   Sale of Property
      IV.   Street Name Changes
      V.   Vacations
      VI.   Franchises
      VII.   Contracts and Agreements
      VIII.   Zoning
      IX   Bonds
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
   References to 1995 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
   SECTION III: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this Ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code of Ordinances; provided, such repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances.
   SECTION IV: Such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day
of its adoption and approval by the Council for the Village of Lincoln Heights
and the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of
such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION V: Such Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect as
provided in Section VI, and such Code of Ordinances shall be presumptive
evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all provisions,
sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the date of
passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved
and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been
given.
   SECTION VI: This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Village, and shall take effect immediately.
   Passed this 25th day of February, 2008.
/s/ LaVerne Mitchell
Mayor, Village of Lincoln Heights
/s/ Elizabeth Smith
Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-O-5
VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS
HAMILTON COUNTY, OHIO
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS, HAMILTON COUNTY, OHIO AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2011 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio, which supplement contains all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County,
Ohio; and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
WHEREAS,   it is the intent of the Council for the Village of Lincoln Heights,
Hamilton County, Ohio to accept these updated sections in accordance with the
changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
WHEREAS,   it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
immediately;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council for the Village of Lincoln
Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio:
SECTION I   That the 2011 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio as submitted by American
Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION II   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Council for the Village of Lincoln Heights,
Hamilton County, Ohio, and the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION III   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Village, and shall take effect immediately.
Passed this 11 day of October, 2011
  /s/
Mayor, Village of Lincoln Heights
Attested:
/s/
Clerk of Council
CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
    I hereby certify that I have published the foregoing legislation beginning
on October 13, 2011, in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Charter for the
Village of Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio, by posting a complete copy
of the legislation for at least 14 days after its adoption in 5 conspicuous
places in the Village, to wit: 1) Healthcare Connection; 2) Village Hall; 3)
Friendship Plaza; 4) Centennial Complex; and 5) Oak Park.
                  Lavonya A. Leonard /s/
                  Lavonya A. Leonard, Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-13
VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS
HAMILTON COUNTY, OHIO
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF LINCOLN HEIGHTS, HAMILTON COUNTY, OHIO
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2014 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio, which supplement contains all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature through Ordinance 2014- O-4,
passed October 14, 2014, and state legislation through September 5, 2014;
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code;
WHEREAS,   It is the intent of the Council for the Village of Lincoln Heights,
Hamilton County, Ohio to accept these updated sections in accordance with the
changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
WHEREAS,   It is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
immediately;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council for the Village of Lincoln
Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio, that:
SECTION I   That the 2014 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio as submitted by American
Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION II   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Council for the Village of Lincoln Heights,
Hamilton County, Ohio, and the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION III   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Village, and shall take effect immediately.
Passed this      day of October, 2015
                                                   
Mayor, Village of Lincoln Heights
Attested:
                                                  
Clerk of Council
   CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
   I hereby certify that I have published the foregoing legislation beginning
on October      , 2015, in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Charter for the
Village of Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio, by posting a complete copy
of the legislation for at least 14 days after its adoption in 5 conspicuous
places in the Village, to wit: 1) Healthcare Connection; 2) Seven Hills
Seniors; 3) Friendship Plaza; 4) Centennial Apartments; and 5) Oak Park.
                                                         
                  Clerk of Council
CHARTER
Section
Preamble
Article I. Incorporation and Powers
   
1-01   Incorporation
   
1-02   Powers
   
1-03   Form of government
   
1-04   Intergovernmental relations
Article II. The Council
   
2-01   Composition
   
2-02   Qualifications
   
2-03   Terms of office
   
2-04   Organization of Council
   
2-05   General powers and duties
   
2-06   The Mayor
   
2-07   The Vice-Mayor
   
2-08   Stipend / expenses
   
2-09   Forfeiture of office
   
2-10   Removals and vacancies
   
2-11   Council procedures
   
2-12   Publication
   
2-13   Codes of technical regulations
   
2-14   Investigation
   
2-15   Term limits
Article III. Administrative Service
   
3-01   Appointment of Manager
   
3-02   Qualifications
   
3-03   Powers and duties of the Manager
   
3-04   Prohibitions
   
3-05   Removal
   
3-06   Absence or disability
   
3-07   Administrative departments
   
3-08   Interference by Council
   
3-09   Administrative code
   
3-10   Director of Legal Services
   
3-11   Chief of Police
Article IV. Financial Procedures
   
4-01   Fiscal year
   
4-02   Annual tax budget
   
4-03   Budget message
   
4-04   General provisions: budget
   
4-05   Council action on budget
   
4-06   Capital improvements programs
   
4-07   Council action on capital program
   
4-08   Public records
   
4-09   Appropriation ordinance
   
4-10   Amendments after adoption
   
4-11   Lapse of appropriations
   
4-12   Administration of the budget
   
4-13   Bonded indebtedness
   
4-14   Tax levy
   
4-15   Earning tax
   
4-16   Fees
   
4-17   Investment of funds
Article V. Nominations and Elections
   
5-01   Municipal elections
   
5-02   Qualified voters
   
5-03   Nominations
   
5-04   Sponsor's acceptance
   
5-05   Ballots
   
5-06   Watchers and challengers
   
5-07   Plurality for election
   
5-08   Statement of campaign expenses
Article VI. Recall
   
6-01   Recall
   
6-02   Form of petitions
   
6-03   Filing and examination of petitions
   
6-04   Amendment of petitions
Article VII. Initiative and Referendum
   
7-01   Initiative
   
7-02   Referendum
Article VIII. Personnel Merit System
   
8-01   Merit principle
   
8-02   Exempt positions
   
8-03   Personnel
   
8-04   Classification of personnel
   
8-05   Personnel Advisory and Appeals Board
   
8-06   Duties of the Personnel Advisory and Appeals Board
   
8-07   Personnel advisory and appeal procedure
   
8-08   Rules of the Manager
   
8-09   Transition
Article IX. General Provisions
   
9-01   Oath of office
   
9-02   Official bonds
   
9-03   Amendments to Charter
   
9-04   Charter revision committee
   
9-05   Severability
Article X. Transition Provision
   
10-01   When Charter takes effect
   
10-02   Effect of present ordinances
   
10-03   Effect on present officials
   
10-04   Effect on present boards and commissions
   
10-05   Effect on municipal employees
   
10-06   Provision for transitional election
   
10-07   Transfer of records and property
   
10-08   Continuance of contracts and public improvements
   
10-09   Pending actions and proceedings
Article XI. Boards and Commissions
   
11-01   Advisory boards/commissions
   
11-02   Planning Commission
   
11-03   Recreation Commission
   
11-04   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
11-05   Housing board of appeals
   
11-06   Tax Board of Review
   
11-07   Public Improvements Commission
   
11-08   Education Commission
   
11-09   Vacancies on advisory boards and commissions
PREAMBLE
   we the people of Lincoln Heights, Ohio, in order to form a more unified
community, establish a system of Home Rule to be responsive to our people, to
insure wider citizen participation in local government, to promote clear and
understandable guidelines for locally elected officials, to encourage continued
improvement in public services through intergovernmental cooperation, and to
provide the best possible protection for our community health, safety, and
welfare, do ordain and establish this Charter for Lincoln Heights, Hamilton
County, Ohio. The provisions of this Charter shall apply whether Lincoln
Heights is a Village or a City.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND POWERS
Section 1.01   INCORPORATION.
   The municipal corporation now existing in the County of Hamilton, State of
Ohio, and known as the “Village of Lincoln Heights,” and herein after referred
to in this Charter as the “Municipality,” shall continue to be a municipal
corporation with all the privileges and powers pertaining thereto. The
Municipality shall have the boundaries that now exist and shall have the
authority to change its boundaries by annexation, detachment, and other
proceedings authorized by the general laws of the State of Ohio. Territory
added to the Municipality shall immediately become subject to the provisions of
this Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 1.02   POWERS.
   The Municipality shall have all powers of local self-government and home
rule now or hereafter granted by the Constitution and general laws of the State
of Ohio. All such powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed in this
Charter or, if not prescribed herein, in such lawful manner as the Council
shall determine by ordinance or resolution. The general laws of the State of
Ohio not inconsistent with the Charter, except those declared inoperable by
ordinance of Council, shall have the force and effect of ordinance of the
Municipality. The enumeration of particular and specific powers in this Charter
shall not be deemed to exclude other powers to which the Municipality of
Lincoln Heights is now or hereafter entitled under the Constitution of the
State of Ohio.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 1.03   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government provided by this Charter shall be known as the
“Council-Manager Government.” All legislative powers of the Municipality,
except those limitations imposed by the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
shall be vested in an elected Council, which shall enact local legislation,
adopt budgets, determine general policies and appoint a Manager. The Manager
shall see that policies and legislation adopted by the Council are enforced and
shall administer the government of the Municipality.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 1.04   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The Municipality may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its
functions and may participate in the financing thereof, jointly, or in
cooperation by contract or otherwise, with any one or more state or political
subdivisions thereof, or the Government of the United States or any agency
thereof.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE II. THE COUNCIL
Section 2.01   COMPOSITION.
   There shall be a Council composed of seven members, all of whom shall be
elected at large. All elections of council members shall be on a nonpartisan
ballot. All council members shall be elected by procedures enumerated in
Article V of this Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.02   QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any qualified resident elector who has been a resident of the Municipality
for a continuous period of time not less than one year preceding the election
shall be eligible to serve as a member of Council. An Elector, who is not
current on all tax filings with the Village, who is delinquent on taxes due the
Village or who has been convicted of a felony, treason, or who has been
imprisoned for a felony shall not be qualified to serve as a member of Council,
or eligible to run for the office of Council member. In addition, an Elector
who has been recalled by the voters of Lincoln Heights pursuant to Section
6.01 of the Charter shall not be qualified to serve as a member of Council
until a period of five calendar years has passed since the date of the election
by which the Elector was recalled. Council members shall not hold any other
public office, or any other employment with the Municipality of Lincoln Heights
except that of a Notary Public, or a member of the National Guard or a Reserve
in the Armed Forces. All members of Council must be willing to accept and
receive on going training in laws or other regulations pertaining to Local,
County, State, National or Federal affairs.
(Adopted by electorate, November 2, 2010; Amended by electorate November 6,
2018/Legislation 2018-O-7, July 9, 2018)
Section 2.03   TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Members of Council shall be elected for four-year overlapping terms. At the
first municipal election after the adoption of this Charter, November 2, 1993,
each of the four candidates receiving the largest number of votes shall be
elected to four-year terms of office, and each of the three candidates
receiving the next highest number of votes shall be elected for a two-year term
of office. Thereafter, beginning November, 1995, all members of Council shall
be elected to a four-year term of office. All Council terms shall begin on the
first day of January after the municipal election and Council shall meet on the
same date for the purpose of organizing.
(Adopted by electorate, November 4,1997 / Legislation 97-O-37, July 30, 1997 /
99-O-84, Dec. 27, 1999)
Section 2.04   ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL.
   On the first day of January after the municipal election Council shall meet
for purpose of organizing. At this meeting, the elected member shall subscribe
to the oath of office set forth in
Article IX of this Charter, and shall proceed by majority vote to elect one of
its members to serve as Mayor and another as Vice Mayor. Each shall serve a
term of two years. This Council shall appoint a Clerk who shall perform duties
as prescribed in this Charter or by general law or in ordinance. The Clerk
shall serve at the pleasure of Council and as Secretary to the Mayor.
(Adopted by electorate, November 4,1997 / Legislation: 97-O-37, July 30, 1997 /
99-O-85, Dec. 27, 1999)
Section 2.05   GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the Municipality shall be vested in Council, except as
otherwise provided by law or this Charter, and the Council shall provide for
the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the Municipality by law. Among other powers, Council shall have the
authority to:
   1.   Appoint and remove the Manager, and establish and modify his/her salary
by ordinance.
   2.   Establish administrative departments or commissions and define their
duties.
   3.   Adopt a personnel pay plan.
   4.   Adopt the annual tax budget and manual appropriation ordinance.
   5.   Adopt and modify the master plan and official map of the Municipality.
   6.   Inquire into the conduct of any officer or employee in the performance
of his/her public duties.
   7.   Authorize the levying of taxes and issuance of bonds.
   8.   Employ a CPA to make an audit of the financial affairs of the
Municipality whenever such is deemed necessary.
   9.   Establish zoning regulations.
   10.   Adopt a subdivision platting ordinance.
   11.   Enact a comprehensive building code.
   12.   Provide for the employment of professional services on a consulting
basis when deemed necessary.
   13.   Adopt ordinances and resolutions on any subject within the scope of
its powers and to provide penalties for the violation thereof.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.06   THE MAYOR.
   As provided in Section
2.04, Council shall elect one of its members to serve as Mayor and another as
Vice Mayor.
   The Mayor shall preside at Council meetings and shall have no power of veto.
He/she is obligated to sign all legislation passed by Council. He/she shall be
the ceremonial and representative head of the Municipality, but shall exercise
no administrative power except as otherwise provided in the Charter. He/she
shall be recognized as the official head of the Municipality for military
purposes and by the Courts for the purposes of serving civil process, and
Mayor's Court.
   He/she shall have judicial authority and other related powers and privileges
under the Constitution and General Laws of Ohio.
   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed for him/her by ordinance
or resolution of Council, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter.
   The Vice Mayor shall perform the Mayor's duties when the Mayor is absent or
incapacitated.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.07   THE VICE MAYOR.
   The Vice-Mayor shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of
the Mayor in case of temporary absence or disability of the Mayor and shall
succeed to his/her office in case of its vacancy.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.08   STIPEND / EXPENSES.
   The stipend of members of Council shall be per annum, payable monthly
regardless of the number of Council meetings held during each month. Council by
ordinance shall establish the stipend for the Mayor, Vice Mayor, and members of
Council.
   The stipend of members of Council, including the Mayor and Vice-Mayor, shall
not exceed the following amounts without the approval of the voters:
 
Mayor         $5,500.00
Vice-Mayor    $4,500.00
Councilmember $3,500.00
 
   Attendance at regularly scheduled Council Meetings, unless excused in
accordance with the Rules of Council, is mandatory for payment of the monthly
stipend. Minutes of Council will verify attendance.
   Upon prior approval of Council, members shall be reimbursed for expenses
incurred in accordance with the Rules of Council, while on Municipal business.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993 / / Revised 9-1-98, 98-O-66)
Section 2.09   FORFEITURE OF OFFICE.
   If, at any time, a Council Member lacks any qualification for the office
described in this Charter; or if he/she consistently fails to abide by the
Rules of Council, he/she shall forfeit his/her office and his/her seat shall be
declared vacant by resolution of Council, five members concurring.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.10   REMOVALS AND VACANCIES.
   The Council shall without delay declare vacant the seat of any member who
shall cease to be a resident of the Municipality. Council may also declare
vacant the seat of any member who persistently fails to abide by the Rules of
Council or who is otherwise guilty of misconduct affecting the performance of
his/her duties as a member of Council, but such action shall be taken only upon
the concurrence of five members of Council at a regular meeting of the Council
after service of notice upon such member of such proposed action at least
seventy-two hours in advance of such meeting, at which he/she may present a
defense.
   Council vacancies shall be filled within sixty days by a vote of a majority
of the remaining Council members. If Council fails to fill such vacancy within
sixty days, the Mayor shall fill it by appointment. Such person so chosen by
Council or the Mayor shall serve it until January 1st, following the next
regular municipal Council election.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.11   COUNCIL PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Meetings. Council shall meet regularly at least twice in every month
except the month of August. Standing Committees of Council shall meet regularly
at least once in every month except the month of August. Special meetings may
be called by the Mayor or a majority of council members. Whenever practicable,
every member shall be given at least 12 hours notice of the Special Meeting.
All meetings shall be public, except that Council may recess to a closed
session for the purpose of discussing any matter which would tend to defame or
prejudice the reputation of any person provided that the subject to be
discussed is expressed in the motion calling for such session, and the final
action on the subject shall not be taken by Council until the matter is placed
on the regular agenda.
(Adopted by electorate, November 4, 1997 / Legislation: 97-O-49 July 30, 1997 /
Revised 9-1-98, 98-0-63)
   (b)   Quorum. Five (5) members of Council shall constitute a quorum.
   (c)   Public Journal. Council shall determine its own rules and order of
business and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings. The
journal shall be a public record kept by the Clerk of Council.
   (d)   Ordinances. Action of Council shall be by ordinance, resolution or
motion. Every action of a general and permanent nature or granting a franchise,
or levying a tax, or appropriating money, or contracting a debt, or for the
purchase, lease, or transfer of public property, or establishing an offense and
fixing a penalty therefor shall be taken by ordinance or resolution. All other
action may be by motion. Any member of Council may at a regular or special
meeting introduce any ordinance, resolution or motion.
   Except on procedural motions, voting shall be by roll call and the ayes and
nays shall be recorded in the journal. The affirmative votes of at least a
majority of the membership shall be required for every action.
   Every ordinance shall be fully and distinctly read on three different days,
unless each member has previously been furnished a copy thereof, in which case
it can be read by title only. By a vote of five (5) members, Council can
suspend the rule requiring the reading of an ordinance on three different days.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Charter, each ordinance approved by the
Council will be effective at the end of thirty days following passage, or such
longer period as is determined by the Council. If the Council determines that
an ordinance should be passed on an emergency basis, the reasons for declaring
such ordinances to be an emergency measure shall be set forth in one section of
the ordinance which section shall be passed only upon an aye and nay vote upon
a separate roll call with at least five (5) of the members voting
affirmatively. No ordinance prescribing rates and charges by a public utility,
or granting a franchise, or levying a tax, shall be passed as an emergency
measure. An emergency ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
passage, or at such later time as it may specify. It shall not automatically
stand repealed as of the 90th day following the date of its adoption but this
shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner prescribed for
regular ordinances.
(Adopted by electorate, November 4, 1997)
   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing. No ordinance shall
contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title.
The opening clause of the ordinance shall be: "Be it ordained by the Council of
Lincoln Heights, Ohio . . ." Any ordinance, which repeals or amends an existing
ordinance or part of the Municipal Administrative Code, shall set out in full
the ordinance, sections or subsections to be repealed or amended.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.12   PUBLICATION.
   The Clerk shall record in a properly indexed book all ordinances and
resolutions adopted by Council. Printed copies of all ordinances and
resolutions and charter amendments shall be available for public inspection in
the office of the Clerk of Council. All legislation must be posted for at least
14 days after adoption in five conspicuous places in the municipality, in
accordance with the Rules of Council.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.13   CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The Council may adopt any standard code prepared and published by private or
public agencies by reference to the date and source of the code without
reproducing the same in full in the ordinance. Copies of such codes shall be
kept in the office of the Clerk of Council. Additional copies shall be
available for sale, at cost, by the Clerk.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.14   INVESTIGATION.
   Council may make investigations into municipal affairs and for this purpose
may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the
production of evidence. Any person who fails to obey a lawful order issued in
the exercise of this power shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than $100.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or
both. If such person is an employee of the administrative service of the
Municipality, such refusal shall be grounds for dismissal.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 2.15 TERM LIMITS.
   Commencing January 1, 2015, no person shall hold the office of member of
council for a period longer than three consecutive four-year terms. Consecutive
terms of service on the council to which members were elected prior to December
1, 2014 shall be counted in determining eligibility for the office of member of
council under this Section. In determining the eligibility of an individual to
hold the office of member of council in accordance with this article:
   (a)   Termed-Limited individuals may not be appointed to complete an
unexpired term of a person leaving that same office.
   (b)   A person who is elected to the office of member of council in a
regular scheduled general election and resigns prior to the completion of the
term for which he or she was elected, shall be considered to have served the
full term in that office.
   (c)   A person who has been appointed to fulfill an unexpired term to which
another person was first elected shall be considered to have served the full
term in that office.
   Should time in office become an issue in determining one's Termed-Limited
status, that status may be confirmed by using archived, village, county or any
other public records.
   Each provision of this section shall be deemed severable from the others,
and a finding that a provision is invalid shall not affect the other
provisions.
(Adopted by electorate, Nov. 4, 2014)
ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
Section 3.01   APPOINTMENT OF MANAGER.
   The Council shall appoint, with five (5) members concurring, a Manager for
an indefinite term. The Manager shall have the powers and perform the duties
set forth in this Charter or by ordinance.
   The first Council elected under this Charter shall select a Manager within
90 days of their taking office. In the 90-day interim period, the duties of the
Manager described herein shall be exercised by the council member selected as
Mayor.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.02   QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his/her executive,
administrative, urban planning, fiscal and public executive administrative
management experience. There will be special preference to actual experience
in, or knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office
as hereinafter set forth. He/she need not be a resident of the Municipality or
State at the time of his/her appointment. He/she may reside outside of the
Municipality while in office only with the authorization of the Council.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGER.
   The Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the Municipality.
He/she shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of all
Municipal affairs placed in his/her charge by or under this Charter. He/she
shall have the following powers and duties:
   1.   Shall appoint and, when deemed it necessary for the good of the
service, suspend or remove any municipal employees and appointive
administrative officers provided for by or under this Charter, except as
otherwise provided in this Charter, or personnel rules adopted pursuant to this
Charter. He/she may authorize an administrative officer who is subject to his/
her direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to
subordinates in that officer's department, office or agency.
   2.   Shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
offices and agencies of the Municipality, except as otherwise provided by this
Charter or law.
   3.   Shall attend all Council meetings and shall have the right to
participate in discussions but may not vote.
   4.   Shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the
Council subject to enforcement by him/her, or by officers subject to his/her
direction and supervision are faithfully executed.
   5.   Shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the
Council.
   6.   Shall submit to Council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the Municipality at the
end of each fiscal year, within not more than 45 days after the closing of such
fiscal year.
   7.   Shall make monthly financial reports and such other reports, as Council
shall require concerning the operation of municipal departments, offices, and
agencies subject to his/her direction and supervision.
   8.   Shall keep Council fully advised as to the financial condition and
future needs of the Municipality, and shall make such recommendations to the
Council concerning the affairs of the Municipality as he/she deems desirable.
   9.   Shall perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or may
be required by Council.
   10.   The Manager may be required to attend meetings of Municipal Boards and
Commissions and may attend all other such meetings, as he/she deems necessary.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.04   PROHIBITIONS.
   The Manager, in exercising his/her appointment powers, is prohibited from
appointing his/her family relation to the position of Department Head. For the
purpose of this Section, “family relation: is defined as wife, husband, son,
daughter, niece, nephew, first cousin, mother, father, sister, brother, aunt,
uncle, and in-laws.”
   The Manager is prohibited from participating in any personal gain activities
with the Municipality through individual or partnership for a period of five
(5) years from date of separation.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.05   REMOVAL.
   The Council may remove the Manager from office in accordance with the
following procedures:
   1.   If necessary or convenient, Council may suspend the Manager with pay
pending any investigation Council might determine to be necessary.
   2.   The Council may, by majority vote of its members, regardless of whether
there has been an investigation, adopt a resolution of intent which shall state
the reasons for removal and may suspend the Manager from duty with or without
pay for a period not a exceed thirty (30) days. A copy of the resolution shall
be delivered to the Manager by the Law Director and/or Clerk of Council.
   3.   Within five (5) days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the
Manager, the Manager may file with the Clerk of Council a written request for a
public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a regular or special Council
meeting not earlier than ten (10) days nor later than twenty (20) days after
the request is filed. The date of the public hearing shall be set by the Mayor.
The only notice required shall be that notice required for a Special Council
Meeting. The Manager may file with the Clerk of Council a written reply to the
resolution of intent, not later than five (5) days before the hearing.
   4.   The Council may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be made
effective immediately, by a vote of a majority of its members at any time after
five (5) days from the date when a copy of the resolution of intent was
delivered to the Manager, if the Manager has not requested a public hearing, or
at any time after the public hearing if the Manager has requested one.
   5.   The decision of the Council to suspend or remove the Manager shall be
in the sole discretion of the Council.
   6.   If the Manager is suspended from duty, the Council shall appoint, by
vote of a majority of its members, an acting Manager until the Manager is
restored to duty or until Council shall appoint a person to the position of
Manager as provided for under this Charter. The Acting Manager so appointed
shall exercise all powers, duties, and functions of the Manager under this
Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.06   ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   By letter filed with the Municipal Clerk, the Manager shall designate,
subject to the approval of a majority of the Council, a qualified Municipal
administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of Manager
during his/her temporary absence or disability. During such absence or
disability, the Council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint
another officer to serve until the Manager shall return or his/her disability
shall cease.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.07   ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS.
   Council shall have the power to create after consultation with the Manager
any departments as may become necessary. Each department shall be headed by a
person appointed by the Manager. The Manager may appoint the same person as
head of more than one department. The Manager may serve as Director of one or
more departments, except that of Legal Services, if approved by Council.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.08   INTERFERENCE BY COUNCIL.
   Neither Council, its committees or members, nor the Mayor, shall direct or
request the Manager to make the appointment of any person to, or suspension or
removal from, office or employment by the Manager, or in any manner take part
in the appointment, discipline, or removal of subordinates and employees in the
service of the Municipality. Council, its committees and members shall deal
with that portion of the service of the Municipality for which the Manager is
responsible solely through the Manager, and neither Council nor its committees
or members, shall give any orders to any subordinate in office. Council may,
however, inquire into the conduct of any office or department, the performance
of any contract, or any of the affairs of the Municipality, and may, in the
exercise of such power, compel or authorize one of its committees to compel the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, records,
papers, and other evidence under penalty of law.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.09   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter and after consultation with the
Manager, the Council shall adopt an Administrative Code, which shall provide in
detail the organization of the government, define the powers and duties of each
municipal agency, and determine the administrative procedures to be followed.
Amendments to and revisions of the Administrative Code shall be made by the
Council only after consultation with the Manager. Provisions of the
Administrative Code shall supersede those of the State law in case of conflict.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.10   DIRECTOR OF LEGAL SERVICES.
   The Director of Legal Services shall be an attorney licensed to practice law
in the State of Ohio. He/she shall perform such duties as may be assigned to
the office of Municipal Solicitor by general law as well as those imposed by
the Administrative Code and this Charter. The Director shall be appointed by
the Manager with the approval of Council.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 3.11   CHIEF OF POLICE
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Manager with the approval of
Council. The Chief of Police shall be a member of the Administrative Service
under the supervision and control of the Village Manager pursuant to Section
3.03 of the Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993 / Revised 2-9-98, 98-O-6)
ARTICLE IV. FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
Section 4.01   FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Municipality shall begin on the first day of January
and shall end on the last day of December.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.02   ANNUAL TAX BUDGET.
   On or before the first day of June of each year, the Manager shall submit to
the Council a budget for the ensuing fiscal year, and an accompanying message.
For that purpose, at such time as he shall determine, he shall obtain from the
head of each department or agency of the Village, plans for the work to be
undertaken by such department during the next fiscal year, together with
estimates for the cost of performing such work. The Director of Finance or
chief fiscal officer, shall supply the Manager with estimates of available
revenue. From this data, the Manager shall prepare the consolidated estimates
for the annual tax budget.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.03   BUDGET MESSAGE.
   The Manager's message shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in
terms of the work programs. It shall outline the proposed financial policies
for the ensuing year, describe the important features of the budget, indicate
any major changes from the current year in financial policies, expenditures,
and revenues, together with the reasons for such changes, summarize the
Municipality's debt position and include such materials as the Manager deems
desirable.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.04   GENERAL PROVISIONS: BUDGET.
   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for all municipal funds
and activities for the ensuing fiscal year, and except as required by law or
this Charter, shall be in such form as the Manager deems desirable or the
Council may require. In organizing the budget, the Manager shall utilize the
most feasible combination of expenditures classification by fund, organization
unit, program, purpose or activity, and object. It shall begin with a clear
general summary of its contents; shall show in detail all estimated income,
including debt service, for the ensuing fiscal year; and shall be so arranged
as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures
of the current fiscal year and actual income and expenditures of the preceding
fiscal year or years. It shall indicate in separate sections.
   (1)   Proposed expenditures for current operations during the ensuing fiscal
year, detailed by offices, departments and agencies in terms of their
respective work programs, and the method of financing such expenditures.
   (2)   Proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing fiscal year, detailed
by offices, departments and agencies when practicable and the proposed method
of financing each such capital expenditure; and
   (3)   Anticipated net surplus or deficit for the ensuing fiscal year of each
utility owned or operated by the Municipality and the proposed method of its
disposition; subsidiary budgets for each such utility giving detailed income
and expenditure information shall be attached appendices to the budget. The
total proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total estimated income.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.05   COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   (a)   Notice of Hearings. The Council shall publish in one of general
circulation, the general summary of the budget and a notice stating:
      1.   The times and places where copies of the message and budget are
available for inspection by the public; and
      2.   The time and place, not less than two weeks after such publication
for a public hearing on the budget.
   (b)   Amendment Before Adoption.  After the public hearing, the Council may
adopt the budget with or without amendments. In amending the budget, it may add
or increase programs or amounts and except expenditures required by law or for
debt service or for estimated cash deficit, provided that no amendment to the
budget shall increase the authorized expenditures to an amount greater than the
total of estimated income.
   (c)   Adoption. The Council shall adopt the budget on or before the 15th day
of July of the fiscal year currently ending, as provided in R.C. § 5705.28. The
Director of Finance shall transmit the budget so adopted to the, County Budget
Commission in the form required by law, on or before the 20th day of July, or
at such later time as is prescribed by the Board of Tax Appeals.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.06   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAMS.
   (a)   Submission to Council. The Manager shall prepare and submit to the
Council a five-year capital improvements program at least three months prior to
the final date for submission of the budget.
   (b)   Contents. The capital program shall include:
      1.   A clear summary of its contents;
      2.   A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be
undertaken during the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate
supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
      3.   Cost estimates, method of financing and recommended time schedules
for each such improvement; and
      4.   The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the
facilities to be constructed or acquired.
   The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to
capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or
acquisition.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.07   COUNCIL ACTION ON CAPITAL PROGRAM.
   (a)   Notice of Hearing. The Council shall publish in one or more
newspapers, the general summary of the capital program and notice stating:
      1.   The times and places where copies of the capital program are
available for inspection by the public; and
      2.   The time and place, not less than two weeks after such publication,
for public hearing on the capital program.
   (b)   Adoption. The Council by resolution shall adopt the capital program
with or without amendment after the public hearing and on or before the 1st day
of March of the current fiscal year.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.08   PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of the budget and the capital improvements program as adopted shall
be public records and shall be made available to the public at suitable places
in the Municipality.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.09   APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   On or before the 15th day of November of the fiscal year, the Manager shall
prepare and submit to Council an appropriation ordinance containing a financial
plan for conducting the affairs of the Municipality during the ensuing fiscal
or calendar year. Council shall specify the form of and the information to be
contained in the Appropriation ordinance, as required by the Bureau of
Inspection and Supervision of Public Offices. The appropriation ordinance shall
be based on the Annual Tax Budget as certified and/or revised by the County
Budget Commission.
   (a)   Adoption. Council shall adopt a temporary appropriation ordinance on
or before the 31st of December of the fiscal year currently ending. The
ordinance shall be passed with five members concurring, at a single reading,
and shall become effective upon its adoption.
   (b)   Permanent Appropriation Ordinance. If Council fails to adopt a
temporary appropriation ordinance by December 31 of the current year, the
amounts appropriated for current operation for the current fiscal year shall be
deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all
items in it prorated accordingly. But no later than the first day of April of
the current year, a permanent appropriation ordinance shall be adopted. Council
shall provide for a public hearing upon such permanent appropriation ordinance,
and may amend such ordinance at any time. Adoption of an appropriation
ordinance shall constitute appropriations of the amount specified therein as
expenditures from the funds indicated.
(Adopted by electorate, November 4, 1997 / Legislation 97-0-40, July 30, 1997)
Section 4.10   AMENDMENTS AFTER ADOPTION.
   (a)   Supplemental Appropriations. If during the fiscal year the Manager
certifies that there are available for appropriation revenues in excess of
those estimated in the budget, the Council by ordinance may make supplemental
appropriations for the year up to the amount of such excess.
   (b)   Emergency Appropriations. To meet a public emergency affecting life,
safety, health, property or the public peace, the Council may make emergency
appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by emergency ordinance ‘in
accordance with the provisions of Article B. To the extent that there are no
available unappropriated revenues to meet such appropriations, the Council may
by such emergency ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes, which
may be renewed from time to time, but the emergency notes and renewals of any
fiscal year shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next
succeeding that in which the emergency appropriation was made.
   (c)   Reduction in Appropriations. If at any time during the fiscal year it
appears probable to the Manager that the revenue available will be insufficient
to meet the amount appropriated, he/she shall report to the Council without
delay, indicating the estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial action
taken by him/her and his/her recommendations as to any other steps that may be/
should be taken. The Council shall then take such further action as it deems
necessary to prevent or minimize any deficit and for that purpose it may by
ordinance reduce one or more appropriations.
   (d)   Transfer of Appropriations. At any time during the fiscal year, the
Manager may transfer part of or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance
among programs within a department, office or agency. He may request Council to
transfer by ordinance part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance
from one department, office or agency to another. The request for transfer of
appropriations from one department, office or agency to another shall be
submitted in writing to Council for action prior to such transfer.
   (e)   Limitations: Effective Date. No appropriation for debt service may be
reduced by transfer, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount
required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the
unencumbered balance thereof The supplemental and emergency appropriations and
reduction or transfer of appropriations authorized by this article may be made
effective immediately upon adoption.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.11   LAPSE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Every appropriation except an appropriation for capital expenditure shall
lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent that it has not been
expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall
continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished
or abandoned; the purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned
if three years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the
appropriation.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.12   ADMINISTRATION OF THE BUDGET.
   (a)   Work Programs and Allotments. At such time as the Manager shall
specify, each department, officer or agency shall submit work programs for the
ensuing fiscal year showing the requested allotments of its appropriation by
periods within the year. The Manager shall review and authorize such allotments
with or without revision as early as possible in the fiscal year. He/she may
revise such allotments during the year if he/she deems it desirable and shall
revise them to accord with any supplemental, emergency, reduced or transferred
appropriations made pursuant to Section
4.10.
   (b)   Payments and Obligations Prohibited. No payment shall be made or
obligation incurred against any allotment or appropriation except in accordance
with appropriations duly made and unless the Manager or his/her designee first
certifies that there is a sufficient unencumbered balance in such allotment or
appropriation and that sufficient funds therefrom are or will be available to
cover the claim or meet the obligation when it becomes due and payable.
   Any authorization of payment or incurring of obligation in violation of the
provisions of this Charter shall be void and any payment so made, illegal; such
action shall be cause for removal of any officer who knowingly authorized or
makes such payment or incurred such obligation, and he/she shall also be liable
to the Municipality for any amount so paid.
   However, except where prohibited by law, nothing in this Charter shall be
construed to prevent the making or authorizing of payments or making of
contracts for capital improvements to be financed wholly or partly by the
issuance of bonds or to prevent the making of any contract or lease providing
for payments beyond the end of the fiscal year, provided that such action is
made or approved by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.13   BONDED INDEBTEDNESS.
   Council may borrow for any purpose valid under the Constitution of the State
of Ohio, and in accordance with the applicable statutory provisions.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.14   TAX LEVY.
   Council shall not have authority or power to levy any tax on real or
personal property without a vote of the people except as may be provided by the
provisions of this Charter, the Constitution, and general laws of the State of
Ohio.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.15   EARNING TAX.
   No tax upon the earnings or income of any person, business, or corporation
within majority of electors the Municipality shall be levied without the
approval of a voting thereon. Taxpayers residing in Lincoln Heights who are 65
years of age or older during the taxable year shall receive a tax credit of
$50.00, or such amount as shall be allowed in the computation of Ohio State
Income Tax Liability.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.16   FEES.
   All fees received by any officer or employee of the Municipality in
connection with his/her employment with the Municipality shall be accounted for
and paid into the municipal treasury.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 4.17   INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Manager, with authorization of the Investment Board, may direct
investments of any surplus, reserve, or inactive funds into such investments as
are permitted by the general laws of Ohio. Such investments shall be supervised
by the Investment Board consisting of the Manager, Director of Finance, and
three (3) members of Council. Each council member's term or said Board shall
expire on the date of expiration of his/her term as council member.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE V. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Section 5.01   MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular municipal election for council members shall be held in odd-
numbered years on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 5.02   QUALIFIED VOTERS.
   All citizens qualified by the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio to
vote in the Municipality and who satisfy the requirements for registration
prescribed by law shall be qualified voters of the Municipality within the
meaning of this Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 5.03   NOMINATIONS.
   There shall be no primary election for Municipal offices. Nominations for
the office of Council Member shall be made by petition only in the standard
forms for the nomination of non-partisan candidates for such offices filed with
the Hamilton County Board of Elections at least 90 days before the day of the
election. Candidates for Council shall file petitions containing the signatures
of no less than 25 voters.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993; Amended by electorate November 6, 2018/
Legislation 2018-O-6, July 9, 2018)
Section 5.04   SPONSOR'S ACCEPTANCE.
   Each candidate may have a sponsoring committee of five (5)-qualified voters,
(The Committee) whose names and addresses shall appear on each copy of the
candidate's petition. Each candidate shall file a separate petition. The
signature of the candidate indicating his/her acceptance of the nomination and
willingness to accept office if elected shall appear on each copy of the
petition. The petition may be in a number of parts, but each part shall be
verified under oath by the circulator of that particular petition. All parts
shall be assembled by the sponsoring Committee prior to submission to the Board
of Elections.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 5.05   BALLOTS.
   Candidate’s names shall be printed on the official ballot without party
designation. If two candidates with the same surname or with names similar
enough to cause confusion are nominated, their residence addresses shall be
printed below their names.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 5.06   WATCHERS AND CHALLENGERS.
   At each municipal election, each regularly nominated candidate shall be
entitled on written application to the Board of Elections at least eleven days
prior to the election, to appoint one person and one alternate to represent
him/her as a watcher and challenger at each polling place during the casting
and counting of ballots, and one person and one alternate to represent him/her
as watcher and challenger during the canvas[s] of votes at the Board of
Elections
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 5.07   PLURALITY FOR ELECTION.
   A simple plurality of valid votes cast shall be sufficient to elect.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 5.08   STATEMENT OF CAMPAIGN EXPENSES.
   Each successful and unsuccessful candidate shall file a statement of
receipts and expenditures on behalf of his/her campaign required by law with
the Board of Elections of Hamilton County, and with the Clerk of the
Municipality in accordance with the requirements of the Hamilton County Board
of Elections. Such statement shall be filed under oath, and shall be a public
record. Failure to file such statement with the Clerk shall disqualify a
successful candidate from receiving the oath of office.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE VI. RECALL
Section 6.01   RECALL.
   The voters of Lincoln Heights shall have the power to recall and remove from
office any member of Council before the expiration of his/her office. A recall
may be started by the filing with the Clerk of Council a petition signed by
qualified voters equal in number to 25 percent of those who cast ballots in the
preceding municipal election, requesting that a Council member, named in the
petition, be removed from office. Such petition shall contain a specific
statement of not less than twenty-five words and not more than two hundred
words of the particular grounds upon which the removal of such person is
sought. Provided, however, that the question of the removal of any Council
member from office shall not be submitted to the voters until such Council
member has served for at least one year of the term during which he/she is
sought to be recalled.
   If the Clerk, finds the petition sufficient, he/she shall certify it to the
Board of Elections of Hamilton County, to be placed on the ballot at the next
succeeding, municipal, or general election occurring not less than ninety days
thereafter, the Question: "Shall (name of Councilperson) be recalled from
office in the Municipality of Lincoln Heights? Yes___ No___."
   If, at the election, a majority of the votes cast on the question shall be
in favor of recall, the official shall forthwith retire from office, and the
resulting vacancy filled in a manner prescribed in this Charter; provided
however, no member of Council who has been recalled pursuant to Article VI of
this Charter shall be eligible for reappointment to any seat in Council during
the same term of the Council member office from which he has been recalled.
(Adopted by electorate, November 4, 1997 / Legislation 97-0-41, July 30, 1997;
Amended by electorate, November 4, 2008/Legislation 2008-O-24, July 7, 2008)
Section 6.02   FORM OF PETITIONS.
   All petition papers circulated for the purpose of recall shall be uniform in
size and style. To each petition paper there shall be attached an affidavit of
the circulator that he/she personally circulated the petition, that it bears a
stated number of signatures, that each signature was affixed in his/her
presence, and that he/she believes them to be the genuine signatures of the
persons whose names they purport to be. Each signature shall be in ink or
indelible pencil. Each signer shall insert after his/her name his/her place of
residence and date of signing. There shall appear on each copy of the petition
the names and addresses of five voters who, as a Committee of the Petitioners
shall be regarded as responsible to the Municipality for the circulation and
filing of the petition. This committee shall file a copy of the petition with
the Clerk before any signatures are obtained.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 6.03   FILING AND EXAMINATION OF PETITIONS.
   All separate papers comprising a recall petition shall be assembled and
filed with the Clerk as a single instrument. Within twenty (20) days
thereafter, the Clerk shall examine the petitions and determine their validity
and sufficiency, and report to Council.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 6.04   AMENDMENT OF PETITIONS.
   In case any petition is found to be insufficient, the Clerk shall notify the
committee of the petitioners and the petition may be amended within ten (10)
days after the date of such notice. The Clerk shall, within five (5) days after
such an amendment has been filed, reexamine the petition, and if it is still
insufficient, the petition shall be rejected and no further action taken
thereon.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE VII. INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
Section 7.01   INITIATIVE.
   The initiative powers are reserved by this Charter to the people of the
Municipality of Lincoln Heights. Such powers shall be exercised in the manner
provided by the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio, except that all
documents, which according to the laws of the State are to be filed with the
Auditor, shall be filed with the Clerk of the Municipality.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 7.02   REFERENDUM.
   The powers of referendum are hereby reserved to the people on all questions
which the Council is authorized to control by legislative action with the
exception of the following.
   1.   Ordinances making or transferring the annual appropriation, or
amendments thereto.
   2.   Measures providing for the discharge of any obligation legally due from
the Municipal.
   3.   Measures directing the performance of any official duty.
   4.   Repealing measures passed by Council pursuant to a referendum petition.
   5.   Measures relating to any public improvements subsequent to the
ordinances determining to proceed.
   The powers of referendum shall be exercised in a manner provided by the
Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio, except that all documents, which
according to the laws of the State are to be filed with the Auditor, shall be
filed with the Clerk of the Municipality.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE VIII. PERSONNEL MERIT SYSTEM
Section 8.01   MERIT PRINCIPLE.
   Appointments and promotions in municipal service shall be made according to
merit, to be determined, as far as practicable, by competitive examination.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 8.02   EXEMPT POSITIONS.
   All positions in the municipal service shall be filled as stated in Section
8.01, except the following:
   (a)   Members of the Council
   (b)   Members of Boards and Commissions
   (c)   Manager
   (d)   Department Heads
   (e)   Clerk of Council
   (f)   Secretary to the Manager
   (g)   Chief of Police
   (h)   Fire Chief
   (i)   Temporary Employees of exceptional professional or scientific
qualifications engaged as consultants for limited periods of times. Seasonal
and part-time employees.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 8.03   PERSONNEL.
   The Manager shall be responsible for the performance of the following
duties, whether by him/herself or designee:
   1.   Supervise the recruitment of qualified persons for positions;
   2.   Conduct examinations or cooperate with other merit system agencies with
regard to any phase of examination;
   3.   Create lists of eligible persons from examination results;
   4.   Certify eligible persons to appointing authorities for appointment or
promotion;
   5.   Establish a job classification plan;
   6.   Develop conduct, provide/and or make available information and actual
training programs for all employees including Council.
   7.   Act as secretary to the Personnel Advisory and Appeal Board;
   8.   Ensure that all employees (exempt and non-exempt) are evaluated not
less than 120 days after appointment of the Manager. Thereafter, evaluations
will be conducted pursuant to the Personnel Policies and Procedures.
   9.   Perform other such personnel related duties may be designated in the
Administrative Code or Personnel Policies Procedures.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 8.04   CLASSIFICATION OF PERSONNEL.
   All persons appointed by Council or the Manager, who direct the functions of
government shall be classified as Officials. Other members of the paid work
force shall be classified as Employees.
   An employee holding a municipal position at the time the merit system takes
effect, who was serving in the same or a comparable position at the time, shall
not be subject to competitive tests as a condition of continuing employment in
the same position, but in all other respects shall be subject to the merit
system provided for in this section.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 8.05   PERSONNEL ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD.
   There shall be a Personnel Appeals Board consisting of three (3) members
appointed by Council for overlapping terms of three (3) years, except that the
members first selected shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one
(1) member shall expire annually thereafter. Each member of the Board shall be
and remain a qualified elector of the Municipality and shall neither hold nor
be a candidate for any public office or be a Municipal officer. Its members
shall serve without compensation. The Manager shall provide clerical assistance
to the Board.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 8.06   DUTIES OF THE PERSONNEL ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Personnel Appeals Board shall hear appeals upon request of any employee
in the non- exempt or exempt service, except for those identified in Sections
8.02(a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (i), who feels aggrieved by an action of the
Manager or his/her designated personnel officer, or by any department director.
Actions subject to appeal include but are not limited to: (1) suspension
without pay for more than three (3) work days, (2) demotion in job
classification, or (3) dismissal. The Board shall also have authority to
subpoena witnesses, and to require the production of records. For that purpose,
Council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the process of citing witnesses,
administering oaths and producing evidence, and its enforcement through the
Department of Law. The judgment of the Personnel Appeals Board shall, for the
purposes of the Municipality, be final.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993; Amended by electorate, November 3, 2015/
Legislation 2015-O-8, July 30, 2015)
Section 8.07   PERSONNEL ADVISORY AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any employee identified in Section 8.06 of the Charter, who has passed his/
her probationary period may appeal to the Board under the rules set forth by
the Board. Actions subject to appeal include but are not limited to: 1)
suspension without pay for more than three (3) work days, 2) demotion in job
classification, or 3) dismissal. Such employee shall have 10 calendar days from
the effective date of the disciplinary action to file an appeal with the
Personnel Advisory and Appeals Board. The Board shall hear the appeal within 30
calendar days of the date on which the appeal is filed and shall render a
judgment either to affirm, reverse or modify the disciplinary action within 90
calendar days of said hearing. Such judgment shall be final. In the appeal
process, the Board shall have the power to subpoena witnesses and require
production of records.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993; Amended by electorate, November 3, 2015/
Legislation 2015-O-9, July 30, 2015)
Section 8.08   RULES OF THE MANAGER.
   The Manager shall prepare a Personnel Policy outlining rules and regulations
necessary to carry out a system of merit employment. Upon approval by Council,
the rules shall be incorporated into the Administrative Code and shall have the
force and affect of law. Amendments may be made by the same procedure as they
are deemed necessary.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 8.09   TRANSITION.
   Until such time as the Personnel Policy is adopted under this Charter, the
present Civil Service laws, and the Municipality's existing personnel policy
will remain in effect.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 9.01   OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the Municipality shall, before entering his/
her duties, take and subscribe to the following oath to be filed with the
Clerk:
   “I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States and of the State of Ohio and will obey the laws thereof, and that
I will, in all respects, observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances
of the Municipality of Lincoln Heights and will faithfully discharge the duties
of upon which I am about to enter.”
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 9.02   OFFICIAL BONDS.
   All officers and employees of the Municipality whose duties require them to
handle or be concerned with the management of its money or other property shall
furnish to the Clerk a corporate surety bond issued by a company authorized to
do business in Ohio, to protect the Municipality against loss due to their
acts. The amount of such bond shall, in each case, be determined by the
Council. The premiums of such bonds shall be paid from the funds of the
Municipality. All such bonds shall be filed with the Clerk of Council.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 9.03   AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER.
   It is the desire of the people of Lincoln Heights that this Charter be
flexible and be able to meet changing conditions as the Municipality grows and
develops. Amendments to this Charter may be made in the manner outlined in
Article XVIII, Section 9 of the Ohio Constitution; that is a proposed amendment
may be placed on the ballot by a two-thirds vote of Council or by a petition
signed by 10% of the qualified voters at the last preceding municipal election.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 9.04   CHARTER REVISION COMMITTEE.
   There shall be a Charter Revision Committee which shall consist of three
members who are electors of the Municipality, appointed by the Mayor with the
concurrence of Council for staggered five-year terms. At the time of the first
appointment under this Charter, two members shall be appointed for five-year
terms and one member shall be appointed for a three-year term. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for five years. Members shall serve without compensation.
The Committee shall adopt such rules, as it deems necessary for the performance
of its function. The Committee shall periodically review the Charter and make
written reports to Council recommending amendments to the Charter to be
submitted to the voters.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993 / revised 9-1-98, 98-O-64)
Section 9.05   SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of this Charter shall be held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the remainder of this
Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE X. TRANSITION PROVISION
Section 10.01   WHEN CHARTER TAKES EFFECT.
   This Charter shall be presented to the electors and voted upon at a primary
election to be held on May 4, 1993. If approved by the voters, it shall go into
effect immediately upon certification of its adoption by the Board of Elections
of Hamilton County for purposes of authorizing the election of a Council under
this Charter at the general election in November 4, 1993. For all other
purposes, this Charter shall go into effect on January 1, 1994.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.02   EFFECT OF PRESENT ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of the Municipality of Lincoln Heights in effect at the time
of the adoption of this Charter shall remain in effect except as superseded by
the provisions of this Charter, until amended or repealed.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.03   EFFECT ON PRESENT OFFICIALS.
   The existing elective offices of Mayor, Vice Mayor, Village Clerk, Treasurer
and all other offices held under the statutory form of government are hereby
abolished by this Charter effective December 31, 1993. The term of council
members and other elected municipal officials elected prior to the election to
be held on November 2, 1993, shall cease and terminate on December 31, 1993, at
which time the first Council elected under this Charter shall take office and
this Charter shall go into effect for all municipal purposes.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.04   EFFECT ON PRESENT BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   All positions on boards and commissions in existence in the Municipality
prior to the adoption of this Charter shall be vacated on December 31, 1993.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.05   EFFECT ON MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES.
   All persons, except those designated in Section
10.03, holding employment at the time this Charter takes effect shall continue
in the performance of their duties until provisions shall have been made, in
conformance with this Charter for the performance of such duties by a
successor, or the employment is abolished.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.06   PROVISION FOR TRANSITIONAL ELECTION.
   For the purpose of bringing about a timely transition to the form of
government prescribed in this Charter, the first council members shall be
elected on November 2, 1993. Their terms shall be staggered with the four
persons receiving the highest number of votes serving a term of four years and
the three receiving the next highest number of votes serving a term of two
years.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.07   TRANSFER OF RECORDS AND PROPERTY.
   All public records and property in the custody of officers and employees of
the Municipality shall be transferred and delivered promptly to their
successors when these have been designated as provided under this Charter.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.08   CONTINUANCE OF CONTRACTS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   All contracts entered into by the Municipality for its benefit prior to the
taking effect of this Charter shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws existing at
the time this Charter takes effect shall be completed, as nearly as
practicable, under the provisions of such laws.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 10.09   PENDING ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   No action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending at the time when this
Charter takes effect, brought by or against the Municipality or any office,
agency or officer thereof shall be abated or affected by anything herein
contained, but all such actions shall be prosecuted or defended under laws in
effect when they were filed.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
ARTICLE XI. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section 11.01   ADVISORY BOARDS/COMMISSIONS.
   The Council shall appoint the following advisory boards/commissions and such
others as deemed desirable. However, no such advisory boards/commissions shall
have the power of appointment of municipal employees. Members of all boards/
commissions shall serve without compensation. These Boards/Commissions shall
serve in an advisory capacity to the Council and will serve in accordance with
ordinances thereof. The health, welfare, education and safety of the citizens
of the Village of Lincoln Heights shall be of the highest priority to the
members of the Boards/Commissions and all citizens of the Municipality shall be
afforded access to these Boards/Commissions.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 11.02   PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Planning Commission of five members appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of Council. They shall be electors of the Municipality. They
shall serve for four year staggered terms. At the time of the first appointment
under this Charter, three members will be appointed for 4-year terms and two
will be appointed for 2-year terms. Members shall serve without compensation.
The Planning Commission shall be an advisory body to the Manager/Council in the
areas of planning, zoning and urban development. The Planning Commission shall
perform such duties as prescribed by this Charter, the Administrative Code,
ordinances of the Municipality or State law. Administrative staff assistance is
to be provided for the Commission under the direction of the Manager.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 11.03   RECREATION COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Recreation Commission of five members appointed by the
Council. They shall be electors of the Municipality and shall serve for four
year staggered terms. At the time of the first appointment under this Charter,
three members shall be appointed for four year terms. The Recreation Commission
shall act as an advisory body to the Manager/Council in the areas of
maintenance and operation of playgrounds and recreational facilities and
programs for the Municipality. They shall also perform such duties as outlined
in the Administrative Code or other municipal ordinances. Administrative staff
assistance is to be provided, when needed, through the Manager.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 11.04   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   There is hereby established by Council a Zoning Board of Appeals consisting
of three members. The Council shall appoint members of said Board. Each member
shall have knowledge of zoning laws and building structures. All rules,
regulations, procedures, requirements necessary for the operations of said
Board shall be established by ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear
appeals of persons or companies affected by the decision of the building
inspector and/or zoning regulations.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993 / Revised 9-1-98, 98-O-65)
Section 11.05   HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Council shall establish a Housing Board of Appeals. Members of said Board
shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of Council. All rules,
regulations and requirements necessary for the operations of said Board shall
be established by ordinance. Housing Board of Appeals shall hear appeals of
persons or companies affected by the decision of the building inspector.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 11.06   TAX BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Council shall create and establish a Tax Board of Review and the
membership of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
Council. All rules, regulations, procedures, and requirements necessary for the
operations of said Board shall be established by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 11.07   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS COMMISSION.
   Section
11.07 is hereby repealed and the Public Improvements Commission abolished.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993 / Revised 9-1-98, 98-O-62)
Section 11.08   EDUCATION COMMISSION.
   There shall be an Education Commission consisting of five (5) Lincoln
Heights citizens, appointed by the Council. At the time of the first
appointment under this Charter, three (3) members will be appointed for four
(4) year terms, and two (2) will be appointed for two-year terms. Thereafter
all appointments will be for four (4) years. Membership shall consist of two
high school-aged students and three adults. All rules, regulations, procedures,
requirements necessary for the operation of said Commission shall be prescribed
by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate, May 4, 1993)
Section 11.09 VACANCIES ON ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Council shall fill any vacancies which occur on the foregoing Advisory
Boards and Commissions within 30 calendar days of receiving notice of said
vacancy. Provided, however, if notice of said vacancy is received between July
15 and August 31, Council shall fill said vacancy within 60 calendar days.
(Adopted by electorate, November 3, 2015/Legislation 2015-O-10, July 30, 2015)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.98   Violations; assignment of counsel to indigents
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01   SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
"municipal code," for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(ORC § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
(ORC § l.02(F))
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
(ORC § 1.02(B))
   BUSINESS. Includes without limitation, any employment, occupation,
profession or activity (both commercial and non-commercial) generating revenue
or income, including without limitation those engaged in for profit, gain or
livelihood.
(Ord. 2008-O-9, passed 6-9-2008)
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. The county or counties in which the municipality is located.
   IMPRISONED. Includes the following:
      (1)   Imprisoned in a county, multicounty, municipal, municipal-county,
or multicounty-municipal jail or workhouse if the offense is a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Imprisoned in a state correctional institution if the offense is an
aggravated murder, murder, another offense punishable by life imprisonment, an
aggravated felony of the first, second or third degree, or a felony of the
first or second degree, or if imprisonment in a state correctional institution
is ordered pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2929.34.
      (3)   Imprisoned in a county, multicounty, municipal, municipal-county,
or multicounty-municipal jail or workhouse if the offense is a felony of the
third or fourth degree and is committed by a person who previously has not
pleaded guilty to, pleaded no contest to and been found guilty of, or been
convicted of a felony, if the offense is not an offense of violence, if the
department of rehabilitation and correction and the local authority that
operates the jail or workhouse has entered into an agreement pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 5120.161 for the housing of such persons in the jail or workhouse, and
if the department designates, pursuant to that section, that the person is to
be imprisoned in the jail or workhouse.
      (4)   Imprisoned in a state correctional institution if the offense is a
third or fourth degree felony and the person is not imprisoned in a county,
multicounty, municipal, municipal-county, or multicounty-municipal jail or
workhouse as described in division (3) above.
(ORC § 1.05)
    KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
(ORC § 701.01(F))
   MAY. Is permissive.
   OATH. Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ORC § 1.59(B), § 701.01(C))
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
(ORC § 1.59(C), § 701.01(A))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
(ORC § 701.01(G))
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
(ORC § 701.01(E))
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Revised Code of Ohio.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
(ORC § 1.02(G))
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code,
shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
(ORC § 1.44(A))
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
(ORC § 1.02(A))
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include printing and any representation of
words, letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law
relating to signatures; includes printing.
(ORC § 1.59(J), § 701.01(B))
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(ORC § 1.44(B))
§ 10.03   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases. Words and phrases shall be read in context and
construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases
that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative
definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(ORC § 1.42)
   (B)   Number; gender; tense. As used in the code, unless the context
otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
(ORC § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing such act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act
may be performed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
(ORC § 1.14)
      (3)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included.
(ORC § 1.15)
      (4)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(ORC § 1.45)
      (5)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of
such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to 3 or
more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or inconsistent
with state statute or Charter provisions.
   (F)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04   REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(ORC § 1.57)
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of a statute does not, except as
provided in division (C) of this section:
        (1)   Affect the prior operation of the statute or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal;
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
such privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and
the investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or
enforced, and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the statute
had not been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(ORC § 1.58)
§ 10.05   CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(ORC § 1.23)
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06   CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.07   SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(ORC § 1.50)
§ 10.08   REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09   ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.10   ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of legislation covered in Chapter 11, this code, from and
after its effective date, shall contain all of the provisions of a general
nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All prior
ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code shall be deemed
repealed from and after the effective date of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.11   ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.12   ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect, and are saved.
§ 10.13   SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ORC § 149.43) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see Ohio R.C.
§ 149.43
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1995 and subsequently amended, the 1995
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1995 Code, § ).”
§ 10.98   VIOLATIONS; ASSIGNMENT OF COUNSEL TO INDIGENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to establish with the Mayor's Court
administration the procedure for assignment of private counsel to represent
defendants charged with violations of the Criminal Code (i.e., Title XIII,
General Offenses) and serious traffic offenses set forth in Title VII of this
code of ordinances whereby if convicted the penalty may be imprisonment.
   (B)   The standards of indigency are incorporated into this section by
reference.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her representative shall designate the assignment
of attorney. There shall be a list of private counsels who are willing to serve
as appointed counsel for a rate to be established by ordinance per individual
and per assignment.
(Ord. 82-O-3, passed 3-8-1982)
   Editor's Note:  The standards of indigency are available for public
inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
§ 10.99   GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the municipality,
any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any provision shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
(Ord. 2007-O-15, passed 1-22-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-O-20, passed 4-9-2007)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
Part One: Administrative Code
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   VILLAGE MANAGER
   
32.   DIRECTOR OF LEGAL SERVICES
   
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
35.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
36.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Part Two
   
38.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
   
39.   TAXATION AND FINANCE; FUNDS
   
40.   VILLAGE POLICIES
   
41.   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY PLANNING
   
42.   CHARTER AMENDMENTS
Part One: Administrative Code
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Adoption
   
30.02   Principal appointive officers
   
30.03   Designation of officer to perform duties of abolished office
§ 30.01   ADOPTION.
   Section
3.09 of the Charter provides that the Village Council, subject to the
provisions of the Charter, and after consultation with the Village Manager,
shall adopt an Administrative Code, which shall provide in detail the
organization of the government, define the powers and duties of each municipal
agency and determine the administrative procedures to be followed. Amendments
to and revision of the Administrative Code, as set forth in Part One of Title
III of this code of ordinances, shall be made by the Village Council only after
consultation with the Village Manager. Provisions of the Administrative Code
shall supersede those of the state law in case of conflict.
(1995 Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02   PRINCIPAL APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor and Village Manager in accordance with the Charter shall be the
principal appointive officers under this Administrative Code.
(1995 Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03   DESIGNATION OF OFFICER TO PERFORM DUTIES OF ABOLISHED OFFICE.
   Wherever in this code of ordinances or in any other ordinance of the village
it is proposed that an action be taken by an officer therein designated by
title which no longer exists, the duty or authority to perform such action
shall rest upon such officer as may be designated by ordinance or by order of
the Village Manager as the successor in such duty or authority of the officer
originally referred to.
(1995 Code, § 30.03)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE MANAGER
Section
   
31.01   Annual report of Village Manager on state of village affairs
   
31.02   Budget duties
   
31.03   Appointment, dismissal and suspension of employees
   
31.04   Execution of contracts
   
31.05   Absence or disability
§ 31.01   ANNUAL REPORT OF VILLAGE MANAGER ON STATE OF VILLAGE AFFAIRS.
   The Village Manager shall prepare and present to the Council an annual
report concerning the state of village affairs and such other reports as
Council may require or the Village Manager deems advisable.
(1995 Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02   BUDGET DUTIES.
   The Village Manager pursuant to the Charter shall submit to the Council a
budget for the ensuing fiscal year together with an accompanying message.
(1995 Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03   APPOINTMENT, DISMISSAL AND SUSPENSION OF EMPLOYEES.
   The Village Manager, except as otherwise provided in the Charter, shall
appoint and may dismiss, suspend, and discipline all officers and employees in
the administrative service under the control of the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 31.03)
§ 31.04   EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS.
   The Village Manager shall be responsible for the execution of all contracts
relating to the business affairs of the village.
(1995 Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.05   ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   The Village Manager pursuant to the Charter shall designate, subject to the
approval of a majority of the Council, a qualified village administrative
officer to exercise the powers and duties of Village Manager during the
temporary absence or disability of the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 31.05)
CHAPTER 32: DIRECTOR OF LEGAL SERVICES
Section
   
32.01   Qualifications
   
32.02   Appointment of assistants
   
32.03   Designation of assistant to act as Prosecuting Attorney in Mayor's
Court
§ 32.01   QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Director of Legal Services shall be an attorney licensed to practice law
in the State of Ohio and with special knowledge and experience in the field of
municipal law.
(1995 Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02   APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANTS.
   The Director of Legal Services with the approval of the Village Manager may
appoint assistants to help him or her in the performance of his or her duties.
(1995 Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.03   DESIGNATION OF ASSISTANT TO ACT AS PROSECUTING ATTORNEY IN MAYOR'S
COURT.
   The Director of Legal Services, with the approval of the Village Manager,
may designate an assistant to act as Prosecuting Attorney in Mayor's Court.
(1995 Code, § 32.03)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Composition; salaries
   
33.02   Applicants; hours of work; bond
   
33.03   Fringe benefits
   
33.04   Rules of conduct for Police Department
Auxiliary Police
   
33.15   Organization
   
33.16   Membership
   
33.17   Uniforms and equipment
   
33.18   Auxiliary Police Fund
   
33.19   Off-duty rules
   
33.20   Disciplinary action
   
33.21   Meetings; training
   
33.22   Compensation when on duty
   
33.23   Officers
Private Police Officers
   
33.35   Commission; fee; bond
   
33.36   Requirements
   
33.37   Uniforms and equipment
   
33.38   Rules and regulations
School Crossing Guards
   
33.45   Appointment; duties and powers
Recovered Property
   
33.50   Property recovered by police
   
33.51   Inventory of property
   
33.52   Disposition to claimant
   
33.53   Sale of unclaimed property; proceeds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01   COMPOSITION; SALARIES.
   (A)   The Police Department of the Village may be composed of the following
officers and other members:
      (1)   A Chief.
      (2)   A Lieutenant.
      (3)   Two Sergeants.
      (4)   Corporal
      (5)   Investigator
      (6)   Police officers, including part-time police officers, the number of
which shall be determined by the Chief of the Police Department and subject to
the approval of the Village Manager. Provided, however, that at no time may the
number of Police Officers total more than the amount of funds budgeted and
appropriated for police officer salaries, wages, and associated benefits for
the then current fiscal year.
   (B)   The foregoing supersedes anything to the contrary contained in this
Code, manual, handbook or the like.
(1995 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 71-14, passed 4-14-1971; Am. Ord. 92-O-41, passed
12-23-1992; Am. Res. 94-R-26, passed 9-26-1994; Am. Ord. 2008-O-23, passed 6-9-
2008; Am. Ord. 2013-O-3, passed 9-9-2013)
Cross-reference:
   School crossing guards, see §
33.45
§ 33.02   APPLICANTS; HOURS OF WORK; BOND.
   (A)   The Police Department as constituted herein, shall be classified by
the Village Manager as required by law.
   (B)   Such officers and other members of the Police Department shall be able
to work rotating shifts. Patrolmen shall not be permitted to engage in full-
time employment or any other job and shall obtain special permission from the
Village Manager in order to engage in part-time employment. FULL-TIME
EMPLOYMENT shall mean employment at 37.50 hours or more per week averaged over
a 52 week period.
   (C)   Applicants for employment in the Police Department must meet
qualifications determined by village and state laws.
   (D)   Each employee of the Police Department shall post bond in the in the
amount of $1,000 at the cost of the village.
   (E)   The standard work week for full-time police officers and other members
of the Police Department shall consist of 37.50 hours or more per week.
(1995 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 71-14, passed 4-14-1971; Am. Ord. 2012-O-11, passed
10-22-2012)
§ 33.03   FRINGE BENEFITS.
   All members of the Police Department and employees shall receive the
following fringe benefits:
   (A)   All full-time police officers who are regular employees shall be
members of the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund.
   (B)   A full-time police officer who is a regular employee shall receive
hospitalization, medical and dental insurance coverage, disability and death
benefits, as well as any other applicable benefits approved by Council.
(1995 Code, § 33.03) (Am. Ord. 97-O-2, passed 2-10-1997; Am. Ord. 2012-O-12,
passed 10-22-2012)
§ 33.04   RULES OF CONDUCT FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   No police officer while on active duty shall leave the village unless
he or she is dispatched by the Hamilton County Dispatcher or the source of
dispatch in use or in pursuit of an alleged offender.
   (B)   No police officer shall allow any civilian passenger in police cruiser
unless such passenger is a prisoner or a village officer or employee authorized
to ride in the police cruiser.
   (C)   No police officer shall use village equipment for personal or private
use while on duty or off duty.
   (D)   Every police officer must pay for any equipment in his or her
possession damaged, lost or misplaced by him or her whether on or off-duty.
Such damaged, lost or misplaced equipment must be logged on the appropriate
police records.
   (E)   The Chief of Police, in the event of a troubled area, will assign two
police officers to the scene of such troubled area. For walking duty, the two
assigned police officers can only leave when dispatched by the Hamilton County
Dispatcher to another troubled area.
   (F)   When two police officers are on duty and two cars are in use in the
troubled area, each must back up each other. No police officer shall go in the
troubled area alone.
   (G)   Every police officer shall give the Chief of Police two hours notice
if such officer will be absent from work. If the call is received by the Chief
of Police the last minute or in an untimely manner for illness only, a doctor's
certificate is required to verify such illness.
   (H)   All officers must log in the starting time for work. If late, such
officer must log in the starting time.
   (I)   If two police cruisers are in use, the Village Manager shall instruct
the Chief of Police that one police cruiser shall patrol the upper half of the
village and the other police cruiser shall patrol the lower half of the
village. All business establishments must be checked every hour.
   (J)   Every police officer without the approval of the Village Manager is
prohibited from disclosing to any one official information or make any public
statements detrimental to the peace, health and welfare of the village during
his or her employment by the village.
   (K)   The Village Manager shall enforce the residence requirement.
   (L)   No police officer shall be on active duty while in the process of
litigation against the village other than disciplinary proceedings.
   (M)   Any violation of division (A), (C), or (H) is cause for removal. Any
violation of division (E), (F), (I) or (J) is a cause for two weeks lay off
without pay. For the violations of any other section, the appointing authority
may take the appropriate disciplinary actions.
(1995 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 82-O-43, passed 12-27-1982)
AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 33.15   ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   A volunteer unit to be hereafter known as the Village Auxiliary Police
Unit is established and organized pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 737.161. The primary
purpose of this unit shall be to assist the Police Department in their regular
and special duties.
   (B)   All members shall serve on a volunteer basis and the compensation for
such service shall be as set by Council.
(1995 Code, § 33.15) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 33.16   MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The membership shall be limited to 25 regular members, and three of
such members may be designated by the Chief of Police to serve as court service
officers; provided however Council may, as the circumstances require, increase
the number by making provisions therefor in the annual budget.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall make all appointments and removals of
auxiliary officers.
   (C)   Auxiliary police, while serving on duty as police officers, are exempt
employees and are not entitled to appeal rights for any employment personnel
actions taken by the village administration. These actions include, but are not
limited to, discharge, supervision, reprimand, retrenchment, demotions, grade
and salary.
   (D)   Applicants shall complete the standard village employee application
form.
   (E)   Applicants must pass a physical examination administered by a
physician approved by the Village Manager.
   (F)   All new members shall be required to complete the state-approved
police course after acceptance. Attendance at training courses sponsored by the
Police Department is mandatory.
   (G)   Resignation of any member shall become effective on written notice to
the Chief of Police and return of badges, patches, uniforms, and equipment that
were issued to such member.
   (H)   Any auxiliary police officer may request being placed on temporary
inactive status due to personal or business reasons. The request must be in
writing and must be approved by the Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 33.16) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980; Am. Ord. 96-O-22, passed
9-9-1996)
§ 33.17   UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any uniforms and equipment purchased from the funds of the Auxiliary
Police shall automatically become the property of the Police Department.
   (B)   Uniforms and equipment will be prescribed, replaced, furnished by and
remain the property of the Police Department.
   (C)   The dispatcher will be informed when an auxiliary police officer is
driving a patrol unit.
   (D)   A member on scheduled duty will wear in a neat and orderly fashion the
prescribed uniform of the day, including a hat, badge and any other equipment
required by the police division.
   (E)   An auxiliary police officer assigned on sports, parade detail or other
special duty will be under orders of the Chief of Police or the regular officer
on duty.
(1995 Code, § 33.17) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980; Am. Ord. 96-O-23, passed
9-9-1996)
§ 33.18   AUXILIARY POLICE FUND.
   (A)   An Auxiliary Police Fund may be maintained by the unit.
   (B)   The auxiliary police may accept donations to the aforementioned fund
for services performed but may in no instance solicit for funds for the unit.
(1995 Code, § 33.18) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 33.19   OFF-DUTY RULES.
   (A)   An auxiliary police officer shall not use his or her badge, wear the
uniform, wear a gun, or engage in auxiliary work when not on regular, special
or emergency duty.
   (B)   When reporting for any type of duty, the member shall drive any
personal or privately-owned vehicle in a normal and lawful manner, and not as
an emergency vehicle.
   (C)   When reporting for any type of duty, the member shall report to the
regular officer and sign the time card, and his or her presence for duty shall
be noted.
(1995 Code, § 33.19) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 33.20   DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   An auxiliary police officer shall be governed by the same rules as a regular
police officer, except that there will be no right to appeal.
(1995 Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 33.21   MEETINGS; TRAINING.
   (A)   The regular meetings or training of the unit shall be set by the Chief
of Police.
   (B)   Any active member who shall be absent from three consecutive regular
meetings or training without acceptable cause shall be discharged from the
unit.
(1995 Code, § 33.21) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 33.22   COMPENSATION WHEN ON DUTY.
   All members shall be compensated at an hourly rate as set by Council when on
regular duty or emergency duty. No auxiliary police officer shall be entitled
to share in the police relief and pension fund, and that such rules and
regulations shall be made from time to time as prescribed by the Village
Council for the unit, insofar as such rules and regulations are not in conflict
with the Charter of the village, and that such rules and regulations so
promulgated shall be binding on such auxiliary police officers.
(1995 Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
§ 33.23   OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the auxiliary police unit shall be the President and
secretary-treasurer.
   (B)   The President and secretary-treasurer shall be appointed by the Chief
of Police.
(1995 Code, § 33.23) (Ord. 80-O-32, passed 4-14-1980)
PRIVATE POLICE OFFICERS
§ 33.35   COMMISSION; FEE; BOND.
   (A)   The Chief of Police with the approval of the Village Manager may
commission private police officers to perform special police duties for the
benefit and at the expense of private persons or corporations.
   (B)   Such private police officers must give bond in the amount of $ 1,000
and pay a fee of $20 for the commission. Such commission shall run for a period
of one year unless sooner terminated as hereinafter mentioned. Such commissions
must be renewed each year. A fee of $10 will be charged for renewal thereof.
(1995 Code, § 33.35) (Ord. 2-1959, passed 1-19-1959)
§ 33.36   REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Private police officers shall not be less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   Private police officers must be citizens of the United States.
   (C)   Private police officers in the judgment of the Village Manager must be
persons of good moral character and pass a physical examination conducted by a
physician selected by the Village Manager.
   (D)   No person who has been dismissed from the regular police force shall
be commissioned as a private police officer after such dismissal.
(1995 Code, § 33.36) (Ord. 2-1959, passed 1-19-1959; Am. Ord. 69-33, passed 9-
15-1969)
§ 33.37   UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Private police officers are required to wear a distinctive uniform,
badge on breast or chest, night stick, whistle, note pad, and commission on his
or her person at all times when on duty.
   (B)   Such uniform shall not be identical to the uniform worn by regular
police officers for the village.
   (C)   Badges will be furnished by the village on the deposit of the required
fee which is refundable on the return of the badge and commission.
(1995 Code, § 33.37) (Ord. 2-1959, passed 1-19-1959)
§ 33.38   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Private police officers must work as private police officers only for
the persons or firms mentioned in the commission.
   (B)   Commissioned private police officers shall have the power to exercise
duties of regular police only at the place designated in the commission and
during their hours on duty or when called on by regular police.
   (C)   Private police officers are not to take part in any civil action, only
criminal, prevention of the breach of peace, and suppression of disturbances on
the premises designated in the commission.
   (D)   On changing from one employment to another, the private police
officers must return the old commission to the Mayor and a new application must
be made. The change must be recorded in the Mayor's office and in the Police
Department, and the previous bond must be renewed or proper endorsement thereof
made.
   (E)   All applications for commissions or renewals of commissions must
contain the following:
      (1)   Name of applicant, address, age, telephone number, and next of kin;
and
      (2)   Statement of the nature of the business, name of firm or persons to
be protected, and the duties which the private police officer is to perform.
   (F)   The commission of a private police officer shall be subject to
revocation by the Chief of Police at any time for the following violations:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming to an officer;
      (2)   Violation of the public trust;
      (3)   Use of badges and commissions for admittance to public affairs; or
      (4)   Use of badges and commissions for personal gains contrary to the
purposes and uses as stated in the commission or application therefor.
(1995 Code, § 33.38) (Ord. 2-1959, passed 1-19-1959)
SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS
§ 33.45   APPOINTMENT; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   There is created and established in the village the position, which
shall be known as school crossing guard, the number of which shall be set by
Council.
   (B)   The duties of the school crossing guards shall be to assist school
children in the crossing of streets going to and from the several schools in
the village. The school crossing guard while on duty shall be conspicuously
attired by the wearing on his or her person a distinctive object or raiment as
prescribed by the Village Manager.
   (C)   Such school crossing guards shall be under the immediate supervision
of the Chief of Police, subject to rules and regulations as prescribed by the
Village Manager.
   (D)   While so engaged in the duties of school crossing guard, such guards
shall be invested with authority to direct, route, and otherwise control
traffic for purposes as herein mentioned.
   (E)   Such school crossing guards shall perform the duties as hereinbefore
mentioned wherever assigned by the Chief of Police, not exceeding three hours
per school day.
   (F)   Such school crossing guards shall be employed during the regular
school season only and shall receive as compensation such as set from time to
time by action of Council.
(1995 Code, § 33.45) (Ord. 7-1958, passed 6-2-1958; Am. Res. 94-R-24, passed 9-
26-1994)
RECOVERED PROPERTY
§ 33.50   PROPERTY RECOVERED BY POLICE.
   Stolen or other property recovered by members of the police force shall be
deposited and kept in a place designated by the Mayor. Each article shall be
entered in a book kept for that purpose, with the name of the owner, if
ascertained, the person from whom taken, the place where found with general
circumstances, the date of its receipt, and the name of the officer recovering
it.
(ORC § 737.29) (1995 Code, § 33.50)
Cross-reference:
   Law Enforcement Trust Fund; proceeds from forfeited property and the like,
see §
39.46 
§ 33.51   INVENTORY OF PROPERTY.
   An inventory of all money or other property shall be given to the party from
whom taken, and in case it is not claimed by some person within 30 days after
such arrest and seizure it shall be delivered to the person from whom taken,
and to no other person, either attorney, agent, actor, or clerk, except by
special order of the Village Manager.
(ORC § 737.29) (1995 Code, § 33.51)
§ 33.52   DISPOSITION TO CLAIMANT.
   If, within 30 days, the money or property recovered under §
33.50 is claimed by any person other than the person from whom the property was
recovered from, it shall be retained by the custodian thereof until after the
discharge or conviction of the person from whom it was taken, and so long as it
may be required as evidence in any case in court. If the claimant establishes
to the satisfaction of the court that he or she is the rightful owner, it shall
be restored to him or her; otherwise, it shall be returned to the accused
person, personally, and not to any attorney, agent, actor, or clerk of the
accused person, except upon special order of the Mayor after all liens and
claims in favor of the municipality have first been discharged and satisfied.
(ORC § 737.31) (1995 Code, § 33.52)
§ 33.53   SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and unless the property
involved is required to be disposed of pursuant to another section of the Ohio
Revised Code, property that is unclaimed for 90 days or more shall be sold by
the Marshal, Police Chief or licensed auctioneer at public auction, after
notice of the sale has been provided by publication once a week for three
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16. The proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the Director
of Finance and shall be credited to the general fund of the municipality.
   (B)   If authorized to do so by an ordinance adopted by the Council of the
municipality and if the property involved is not required to be disposed of
pursuant to another section of the Ohio Revised Code, the Police Chief or
Marshal may contribute property that is unclaimed for 90 days or more to one or
more public agencies, to one or more nonprofit organizations no part of the net
income of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual
and no substantial part of the activities of which consists of carrying on
propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation, or to one or more
organizations satisfying IRC 501(c)(3) or (c)(19).
(ORC § 737.32) (1995 Code, § 33.53)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Composition; vacancies
   
34.02   Rules and regulations
   
34.03   Schools of instruction
   
34.04   Purchase of engines and equipment
   
34.05   Buildings
   
34.06   Records
   
34.07   Practice drills
   
34.08   Assistant Chief
   
34.09   Firefighters
   
34.10   Attendance at officers’ meetings; loss of membership
   
34.11   Emergency medical services
   
34.12   Burning buildings for fire fighting instruction or research
§ 34.01   COMPOSITION; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the Village of Lincoln Heights shall consist of
the following officers and members:
      (1)   Chief;
      (2)   First Assistant Chief;
      (3)   Second Assistant Chief;
      (4)   Captain;
      (5)   First Fire Lieutenant;
      (6)   Second Fire Lieutenant;
      (7)   Third Fire Lieutenant; and
      (8)   Sixteen firefighter members.
   (B)   Council, as the circumstances may require, shall establish the
compensation and may change the number of officers and members of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   Each officer and member of the Fire Department, except the Fire Chief,
for response to each drill shall receive the sum of $1 or such amount as
Council shall determine, in addition to compensation for the performance of
other duties.
   (D)   The Village Manager shall fill all vacancies and make promotions in
the Fire Department.
(1995 Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 68-11, passed 5-6-1968; Am. Ord. 96-O-24, passed 9-
9-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see
Ch. 91
§ 34.02   RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Manager shall prescribe the duties of the several officers and
members of the Fire Department, and prepare rules and regulations for the same
all in accordance with the state laws. A copy of the rules and regulations
shall be filed with the Clerk of Council, the Mayor, and the Finance Director.
Copies shall be made available for all employees of the Fire Department.
(1995 Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 68-11, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 34.03   SCHOOLS OF INSTRUCTION.
   The Council may send any of the officers and firefighters of its Fire
Department to schools of instruction designed to promote the efficiency of
firefighters and, if authorized in advance, may pay their necessary expenses
from the funds used for the maintenance and operation of the Fire Department.
(ORC § 737.23) (1995 Code, § 34.03)
§ 34.04   PURCHASE OF ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT.
   The Council may purchase the necessary fire engines and such other equipment
as is necessary for the extinguishment of fires and the saving of lives, and
may establish lines of fire alarm telegraph within the limits of the village.
(ORC § 737.24) (1995 Code, § 34.04)
§ 34.05   BUILDINGS.
   The Council may provide or erect necessary and suitable buildings containing
rooms for fire engines and other equipment, and provide for the meetings of the
fire and hose companies.
(ORC § 737.25) (1995 Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.06   RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires.
Such record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of
fire if known, type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose for which
occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department responding
to the alarm, and such other information as he or she may deem advisable or as
may be required from time to time by the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.07   PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Fire Chief shall hold drills on two scheduled dates and places each
month. All officers and members of the Fire Department and the Emergency
Medical Services are required to attend such drills.
(1995 Code, § 34.07) (Am. Ord. 96-O-25, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 34.08   ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   The Assistant Chief shall, in the absence or disability of the Chief,
perform all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(1995 Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.09   FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall not be less than 18 nor more than
55 years of age and must be able bodied. They shall pass a satisfactory mental
and physical examination and shall become members of the Fire Department only
after a six-month probationary period.
(1995 Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.10   ATTENDANCE AT OFFICERS’ MEETINGS; LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There will be one officers' meeting which all officers of the Fire
Department and Emergency Medical Services are required to attend.
   (B)   Any officer of the Fire Department or Emergency Medical Services who
is absent from three consecutive meetings shall forfeit his or her officer's
position.
(1995 Code, § 34.10) (Am. Ord. 96-O-26, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 34.11   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department is designated as the administrative
officer of the Emergency Medical Services.
   (B)   The Emergency Medical Services shall consist of the following officers
and members:
      (1)   Captain;
      (2)   First Lieutenant;
      (3)   Second Lieutenant; and
      (4)   Twelve Emergency Medical Services members (non-members of the Fire
Department).
   (C)   An Emergency Medical Services member shall successfully complete the
training course given by an accrediting body pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 4765.15
through 4765.24, and shall have a valid certificate of practice. To sustain
membership in the Emergency Medical Services a member must have a certificate
of practice renewed every three years as prescribed by Ohio R.C. § 4765.30.
(1995 Code, § 34.11) (Ord. 82-O-2, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 87-O-14, passed 4-
8-1987; Am. Ord. 96-O-27, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 34.12   BURNING BUILDINGS FOR FIRE FIGHTING INSTRUCTION OR RESEARCH.
   No building that contains asbestos shall be burned for the purpose of
instruction in the methods of fire fighting or research in the control of
fires.
(ORC § 3737.14(B))
Statutory reference:
   Notification requirements, Ohio R.C. §§ 3737.14(C) and (D)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
35.01   Board of Control
   
35.02   Personnel Advisory and Appeals Board
   
35.03   Planning Commission
   
35.04   Recreation Commission
   
35.05   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
35.06   Housing Board of Appeals
   
35.07   Tax Board of Review
   
35.08   Public Improvements Commission (Repealed)
   
35.09   Education Commission
   
35.10   Records Commission
   
35.11   Appointment of Chairpersons for Boards and Commissions; term of office
   
35.12   Rule of attendance
§ 35.01   BOARD OF CONTROL.
   (A)   The Village Manager, Finance Director and the Chairman of the Law
Committee shall constitute the Board of Control.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be ex officio president and the Board shall keep a
record of its proceedings. All votes shall be by yeas and nays and entered on
the record, and a majority vote of all the members of the Board shall be
necessary to adopt any question, motion or order.
(Ord. 75-10, passed 3-3-1975)
   (C)   No contract in the excess of $5,000 shall be awarded except upon the
approval of the Board of Control.
(1995 Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.02   PERSONNEL ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD.
   For provisions effecting the Personnel and Advisory and Appeals Board, see
Charter §§
8.05 through
8.07.
(1995 Code, § 35.02)
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policies and procedures, see
Ch. 37
§ 35.03   PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall perform such duties as prescribed by the
Charter, ordinances of Council and statute.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall be the Platting Commission of the
village and, as such, shall have the control of the platting of lands within
the village.
   (C)   No amendment of the Zoning Code of the village set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances or the zone map shall be made or enacted
by the Council until and unless such amendment shall be approved by the
Planning Commission, provided that in case of its failure to approve, the
Planning Commission shall communicate the reason of its disapproval to the
Council, and the Council, by a vote of not less than five of its members, shall
have the power to overrule such failure to approve and may enact the proposed
amendment.
(1995 Code, § 35.03)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see Charter §
11.02
§ 35.04   RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Recreation Commission shall consist of five members appointed by
Council. They shall be electors of the village and serve a term of four years.
   (B)   Members on the Recreation Commission shall serve staggered terms. At
the time of the first appointments under the charter, three members shall be
approved for four-year terms, and two shall be appointed for two-year terms.
Thereafter, all appointed members shall serve four-year terms.
   (C)   The Recreation Commission shall act as an advisory body to the Village
Manager and Council in areas involving recreational programs, maintenance and
operation of playgrounds, as well as other recreational facilities.
   (D)   The Recreation Commission shall make an annual report to the Village
Manager and Council regarding recreational programs and facilities in the
village together with recommendations which it deems appropriate.
(1995 Code, § 35.04)
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Commission, see Charter §
11.03
§ 35.05   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   For provisions effecting the Zoning Board of Appeals, see §§
153.225 et seq. of this code of ordinances and Charter §
11.04.
(1995 Code, § 35.05)
§ 35.06   HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   For provisions effecting the Housing Board of Appeals, see §
150.68 of this code of ordinances and Charter §
11.05.
(1995 Code, § 35.06)
§ 35.07   TAX BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   The Tax Board of Review shall consist of five members appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of Council. They shall be electors of the village and
serve a term of four years.
   (B)   The Tax Board of Review shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall
keep a record of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall constitute a
quorum. Any hearing by the Board may be conducted privately and the
confidential character of the tax information of the taxpayer shall be
protected.
   (C)   The Tax Board of Review shall hear and act upon appeal from any ruling
or decision of the Administrator.
   (D)   Any taxpayer dissatisfied with the ruling or decision of the
Administrator may appeal therefrom to the Tax Board of Review within ten days
from the announcement of the ruling or decision by the administration. The Tax
Board of Review, after the hearing, shall have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse,
or modify any ruling or decision or any part thereof.
(1995 Code, § 35.07)
Cross-reference:
   Tax Board of Review, see Charter §
11.06
§ 35.08   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS COMMISSION (REPEALED).
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed and the Public Improvements
Commission abolished by Ordinance 98-O-62, passed September 1, 1998.)
§ 35.09   EDUCATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Education Commission shall consist of five members appointed by
Council. They shall be citizens of the village and serve a term of four years.
At the time of the first appointment under this charter, three members will be
appointed for four year terms and two will be for two-year terms. Thereafter,
all appointments will be for a four-year terms. Membership shall consist of two
high school students and three adults.
   (B)   The Education Commission shall consider and study matters relating to
pre-school training, truancy, drop-outs, juvenile delinquency, illiteracy,
adult education, tutoring, scholarship awards, career counseling, and other
related subjects which will improve the quality of education for citizens in
the village.
   (C)   The Education Commission shall act as an advisory body to the Council
in all educational matters. It shall make an annual report to the Village
Manager and Council regarding the quality of education in the village with
recommendations which it deems appropriate.
(1995 Code, § 35.09)
Cross-reference:
   Education Commission, see Charter §
11.08
§ 35.10   RECORDS COMMISSION.
   (A)   A Records Commission is hereby established consisting of the Village
Manager or his or her appointed representative, as Chairperson, Finance
Director, Director of Legal Services and a citizen appointed by the Village
Manager.
   (B)   The Records Commission shall appoint a secretary, who may or may not
be a member of the commission and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
commission.
   (C)   The Records Commission may employ, with the approval of Council, an
archivist to serve under its direction.
   (D)   The Records Commission shall meet at least once every six months and
upon the call of the Chairperson.
   (E)   The Records Commission shall establish rules for the retention and
disposal of municipal records for the village.
   (F)   When municipal records have been approved for disposal by the
Commission, such disposition shall be in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 149.39.
(1995 Code, § 35.11) (Res. 95-R-52, passed 8-28-1995)
§ 35.11   APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRPERSONS FOR BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS; TERM OF
OFFICE.
   (A)   Members of the Boards and Commission of Lincoln Heights shall elect
their Chairpersons based on the vote of a majority of such members.
   (B)   The term of office for a chairperson of a Board or Commission shall be
for two years or shall terminate at the same time of the termination in office
of the Mayor who appointed such chairperson.
(Ord. 2000-O-3, passed 2-14-2000; Am. Ord. 2015-O-4, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 35.12 RULE OF ATTENDANCE.
   All Board and Commission members are required to attend the scheduled
meetings of the Boards and Commissions on which they sit, both regular and
special members in attendance shall be noted in the minutes which the Chairman
shall certify and forward to Council at the end of each month. Any member
desiring to be excused from attendance at a Board or Commission meeting shall
obtain such permission from the Village Council. If any Board or Commission
member fails to attend three scheduled meetings, either regular or special, of
the Board or Commission on which they sit in the same calendar year without the
excuse of the Village Council, such individual's membership on said Board or
Commission shall immediately terminate without notice and said vacancy shall be
filled in accordance with the Charter and the Code of Ordinances for the
Village of Lincoln Heights.
(Ord. 2009-O-9, passed 6-22-2009)
CHAPTER 36: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
36.01   Village Manager
   
36.02   Building Inspector
   
36.03   Finance Department; Director of Finance
   
36.04   Clerk of Mayor's Court
   
36.05   Tax Commissioner
   
36.06   Economic Development Coordinator
   
36.07   Housing and Zoning Inspector (Repealed)
   
36.08   Information Technology Administrator
   
36.09   Receptionist
   
36.10   Assistant Village Manager
§ 36.01   VILLAGE MANAGER.
   For provisions effecting the Village Manager, see Charter §§
3.01 through
3.09 and
Chapter 31 of this code of ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 36.01)
Cross-reference:
   Village Manager, see
Ch. 31
§ 36.02   BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Division of Building Inspection and Zoning Administration shall be
composed of a Building Inspector, appointed by the Village Manager, and such
other number of deputy inspectors and employees as may be provided in the
annual budget adopted by Council.
   (B)   The Building Inspector and deputy inspectors shall enforce the
Building Code, the Housing Code, the Zoning Code and such other codes as may be
assigned for enforcement to this Division by the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-7-1975; Am. Ord. 97-O-5, passed 1-29-
1997)
Cross-reference:
   Building code adopted, see §
150.15
§ 36.03   FINANCE DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The Finance Department shall perform
those functions customarily performed by the Village Auditor and treasurer
under the general laws of Ohio. The head of the Finance Department shall be the
Finance Director, appointed by the Village Manager and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Village Manager. He or she shall have the knowledge of
municipal accounting and taxation and shall have experience or training in
budgeting and financial control. He or she shall be the fiscal officer of the
village, and shall be responsible for the accounting, collection and custody of
public funds and shall control all disbursements authorized from the village
treasury. He or she shall countersign all bonds and notes issued by the village
and perform such other functions as may be prescribed by Charter, by ordinance
of Council or by order of the Village Manager.
   (B)   Books and accounts. The Director of Finance shall keep the books of
the village and exhibit accurate statements of the moneys received and
expended, of all property owned by the village and the income derived
therefrom, and of all taxes and assessments.
   (C)   Audit required. At the end of each fiscal year, or more often, if
required by the Council, the Director of Finance shall audit all accounts of
officers and departments. Such Director shall prescribe the form of accounts
and reports to be rendered to the Finance Department, and the form and method
of repair, accounts by all other departments, and subject to the powers and
duties of the Auditor of the State, shall have inspections and revision
thereof. On the death, resignation, removal or expiration of the term of office
of any officer or employee, the Director of Finance shall examine the accounts
of such officer or other person, and report his or her findings to the Village
Manager and file a copy with Council.
(1995 Code, § 36.03)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of a municipal treasurer, see Ohio R.C. § 733.44
§ 36.04   CLERK OF MAYOR'S COURT.
   (A)   There is established the administrative position of Clerk of Mayor's
Court.
   (B)   This position is to provide the Mayor with clerical assistance for
Mayor's Court.
(1995 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 76-O-3, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 36.05   TAX COMMISSIONER.
   There is created the position of Tax Commissioner who shall be appointed by
the Village Manager and serve at his or her pleasure. The duties of the Tax
Commissioner are:
   (A)   Enforce the earnings tax ordinance;
   (B)   Mail correspondence for taxes due or delinquent;
   (C)   Keep records of moneys received and report such to the Finance
Director;
   (D)   Maintain records of village residents and businesses; and
   (E)   Perform general clerical duties.
(1995 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 75-39, passed 7-1-1975)
   Editor's note: This section has been amended for this codification. It is
based on the 1981 code section that originally established the office and
duties of the Deputy Tax Commissioner.
§ 36.06   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR.
   There is created the position of Economic Development Coordinator who shall
be appointed by the Village Manager and serve at his or her pleasure. The
duties of the Economic Development Coordinator shall be as follows:
   (A)   Report directly to the Village Manager;
   (B)   Coordinate, oversee economic development activities, and conduct
research, surveys and studies regard overall economic conditions in the
village;
   (C)   Act as grantsperson (i.e., grant writer) for the village;
   (D)   Attend meetings and hearings;
   (E)   Review budgetary proposals and make recommendations; and
   (F)   Research federal programs and determine what assistance is available
to the village.
(1995 Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 76-O-23, passed 7-12-1976)
   Editor's note: This section has been amended for this codification. It is
based on the 1981 code section that originally established the office and
duties of the Economic Development Coordinator.
§ 36.07   HOUSING AND ZONING INSPECTOR (REPEALED).
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Ordinance 97-O-5, passed
January 29, 1997.)
§ 36.08 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is established the administrative position of Information
Technology Administrator.
   (B)   This position is to oversee and support the information systems within
the Village.
(Ord. 2010-O-4, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 36.09 RECEPTIONIST.
   (A)   There is established the administrative position of Receptionist.
   (B)   This position is to receive and greet visitors to Village Hall, as
well as to assist in answering telephone calls and with any other tasks the
Village Manager may reasonably request.
(Ord. 2012-O-2, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 36.10 ASSISTANT VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   There is established the position of an Assistant Village Manager.
   (B)   This position is to assist in the duties of the Village Manager as
outlined in Article III of the Charter for the Village of Lincoln Heights and
Title III, Part One,
Chapter 31 of the Village of Lincoln Heights, Ohio Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-O-1, passed 7-13-2020)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Responsibility for administration
   
37.03   Maintenance of plan
   
37.04   Interpretation of class specifications
   
37.05   Amendments
   
37.06   Allocation of existing positions
   
37.07   New appointees
   
37.08   Promotions
   
37.09   Demotions
   
37.10   Personnel evaluation; pay adjustment procedures
   
37.11   Longevity (Repealed)
   
37.12   Allowances
   
37.13   Leaves of absence
   
37.14   Court duty
   
37.15   Holidays
   
37.16   Administration responsible for pay plan
   
37.17   Interpretation
   
37.18   Initial adjustment to pay plan
   
37.19   Review and amendment of pay plan
   
37.20   Pay plan
   
37.21   Employee benefit plans
   
37.22   (Reserved)
   
37.23   Prohibitions
   
37.24   Applications for positions
   
37.25   Examinations for positions
   
37.26   Employment lists
   
37.27   Method of filling vacancies
   
37.28   Probationary period
   
37.29   Disciplinary action
   
37.30   Penalties and separations
   
37.31   Complaints and grievances
   
37.32   Damage to village property
   
37.33   Political activity; exemptions
   
37.34   Employment ineligibility
   
37.35   Residency requirement
   
37.36   Tenure
   
37.37   Working schedule
   
37.38   Salaries
   
37.39   Time card and time sheets
   
37.40   Overtime compensation and compensatory time off
   
37.41   Use of village vehicles
   
37.42   Alcohol and drug testing policy
   
37.43   Workers’ Compensation
   
37.44   Advancement of regular wages
   
37.45   Employee handbook
   
37.46   Reporting an investigation
Cross-reference:
   Personnel Advisory and Appeals Board, see Charter §§
8.05 through
8.07
§ 37.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOCATION. The assignment of an individual position to an appropriate class
on the basis of the kind, difficulty, and responsibility of the work actually
performed in the position.
   APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The official having power to make appointments.
   CLASS. A group of positions, or one position, that has similar duties and
responsibilities, requires  like qualifications, and can be equitably
compensated by the same salary range.
   CLASS SPECIFICATION. The written description of a class containing such of
the typical duties, of the class, and the qualifications that are necessary or
desirable for the satisfactory performance of the duties of the class.
   CLASS TITLE. The official designation or name of the class as stated in the
class specification. It shall be used on all personnel records and actions.
Working or office titles may be used for purposes of internal administration.
   DEMOTION. The change of an employee from a position in one class to a
position in another class, having a lower maximum salary rate.
   DISCHARGE. An involuntary permanent separation from employment for violation
of specific provision of the personnel policies, or other departmental rules
and regulations, or any other proper cause.
   ELIGIBLE. A person whose name is on an employment list.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. A person engaged in employment for 37.50 hours
or more per week on a permanent or regular basis.
      (2)   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. A person engaged in employment for
substantially less than 40 hours per week on a permanent or regular basis. Fire
Department personnel, among others, are PART- TIME EMPLOYEES.
      (3)   REGULAR EMPLOYEE or PERMANENT EMPLOYEE. An employee who has been
permanently appointed to a full-time or part-time position by the Village
Manager. Seasonal employees are not included in this category.
      (4)   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. A person engaged in employment of a
nonpermanent and nonrecurring nature, the duration of which does not exceed 90
calendar days in the calendar year. Temporary employment does not entitle one
to vacation, holiday, pension, insurance (except workmen's compensation), or
sick leave benefits.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Spouse or children, which includes a son or daughter who
is the employee's biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild, legal ward,
or a child for whom the employee stands in loco parentis.
   LAYOFF. The separation of an employee for the purpose of reducing the work
force due to reasons not related to fault, delinquency or misconduct on the
part of the employee.
   PERSONNEL DIRECTOR. The Village Manager or such person as the Village
Manager may designate.
   POSITION. A group of currently assigned duties and responsibilities
requiring the full- or part-time employment of one person. A position may be
occupied or vacant.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. A working test period during which an employee is
required to demonstrate his or her fitness for the duties of the position to
which he or she is appointed by actual performance of the duties of the
position.
   PROMOTION. A change in the position of an employee from one class to a
position in another class having a higher maximum salary rate.
   REALLOCATION. The reassignment of an individual position to an appropriate
class on the basis of the kind, difficulty and responsibility of the work
actually performed in the position.
   RESIGNATION. Voluntary separation from employment on written notification to
the Village Manager specifying the date and reason for separation.
   RESIDENT. A person who has resided in the village for at least one year
immediately preceding the date of application.
   SUSPENSION. An involuntary separation from employment for a specified
temporary period of time, without pay, for violation of a specific provision of
the personnel policies, other departmental rules and regulations, or any other
proper cause.
   TRANSFER. A change of an employee from one position to another position in
the same class or another class having the same maximum salary rate.
(1995 Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 2003-O-11, passed
2-10-2003; Am. Ord. 2010-O-2, passed 4-26-2010; Am. Ord. 2012-O-13, passed 10-
22-2012; Am. Ord. 2015-O-1, passed 1-8-2015; Am. Ord. 2015-O-12, passed - - ;
Am. Ord. 2016-O-04, passed 3-28-2016)
§ 37.02   RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village Manager shall be responsible for administering the
classification plan. The Village Manager may assign other officials or
employees to assist him or her in this activity.
(1995 Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.03   MAINTENANCE OF PLAN.
   (A)   Each time a vacancy occurs in a department, a position description
shall be completed by the director of the department and submitted to the
Village Manager for a review of the allocation of the position. This
requirement may be waived by the Village Manager in cases where changes in the
duties and responsibilities of a position have been unlikely.
   (B)   Each time a department or division is reorganized, position
descriptions of all affected employees should be submitted to the Village
Manager for his or her review.
   (C)   The Village Manager may require departments or employees to submit
position descriptions on a periodic basis, or any time he or she has reason to
believe that there has been a change in the duties and responsibilities of one
or more positions.
   (D)   Each time a new class is established, a class specification shall be
written and incorporated in the existing plan. The class title shall be added
to the schematic list of titles. Likewise, an abolished class shall be deleted
from the classification plan by removing the class specification and
eliminating the class title from the schematic list of titles.
   (E)   During the second year after the adoption of this chapter, the Village
Manager shall conduct a general review of the classification plan to be
followed by a minimum of at least one general review of the classification plan
in each succeeding two-year period.
(1995 Code, § 37.03) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.04   INTERPRETATION OF CLASS SPECIFICATIONS.
   The class specifications are descriptive and not restrictive. They are
intended to indicate the kinds of positions which shall be allocated to the
classes established. In a series of classes such as the police classes, the
specifications for all classes should be reviewed as a unit.
(1995 Code, § 37.04) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.05   AMENDMENTS.
   Each time a new class of positions should be established or a current class
of positions abolished, the Village Manager shall submit his or her findings
and recommendations to the Council. The Council shall determine whether the
establishment or the abolition of a class is in order. All such changes shall
be effected by ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 37.05) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.06   ALLOCATION OF EXISTING POSITIONS.
   The positions covered by the position classification plan are allocated to
appropriate classes. The Village Manager shall notify each employee of the
allocation of his or her position in writing.
(1995 Code, § 37.06) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.07   NEW APPOINTEES.
   (A)   Generally a new employee shall be paid the minimum rate of pay for his
or her class. Exceptions may be granted in the following cases on the written
prior approval of the Village Manager.
   (B)   The minimum rate of pay for each class is based on the assumption that
a new employee meets the minimum qualifications stated in the class
specification. If it becomes necessary to appoint a new employee of lesser
qualifications, he or she should be started at one step below the minimum rate
of pay for the class.
   (C)   If a new employee has related work experience and more than the
minimum qualifications for the classification to which his or her position is
assigned, he or she may be hired above the minimum rate of pay and may be paid
at an appropriate step within the range for the grade to which his or her
position is assigned.
   (D)   Each new employee shall be required to serve a probationary period of
six months, and the Village Manager may extend the probationary period for an
additional six months or part thereof if after consulting the appropriate
department head or supervisor it is determined that an extended period of
observation and evaluation would be in the best interests of the municipal
service. Unsatisfactory probationary employees shall be separated on or before
the completion of their probationary period. On satisfactory completion of the
probationary period, an employee shall be given permanent status and raised
after two years to the next step in the pay range to which his or her class is
assigned.
(1995 Code, § 37.07) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.08   PROMOTIONS.
   When an employee is promoted to a position in a higher grade, his or her new
salary shall be determined by the Village Manager, who shall consult with the
department head prior to making any such determination. His or her new rate
will depend on the qualifications that he or she brings to the new job, and it
shall be at an established step within the grade.
(1995 Code, § 37.08) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.09   DEMOTIONS.
   When an employee is demoted to a lower class position, he or she shall be
paid at an established rate which is within the approved range for the lower
class position. The rate of pay shall be determined by the Village Manager, who
shall consult with the department head prior to making any such determination.
In an emergency situation, the allowance or compensation therefor shall be
subsequently approved and authorized by the Village Manager. Overtime for any
reason other than an emergency must have prior authorization from the Village
Manager.
(1995 Code, § 37.09) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.10   PERSONNEL EVALUATION; PAY ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall make an annual personnel evaluation of each
regular or permanent employee, as defined by §
37.01, in such manner and form approved by Council.
   (B)   A pay grade shall be established in accordance with the classification
plan pursuant to §§
37.02 to
37.06, inclusive, for each employment position.
   (C)   Upon the recommendation of the Village Manager, Council may make
annual pay adjustments in accordance with the budgetary limitations of the
village.
(1995 Code, § 37.10) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 97-O-76, passed 11-
24-1997)
§ 37.11   LONGEVITY (REPEALED).
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Ordinance 2003-O-16, passed
February 10, 2003.)
§ 37.12   ALLOWANCES.
   (A)   Expenses. Any legitimate expense allowance authorized by ordinance or
established village policy shall be in addition to regular salary and shall not
be deducted from money salary payable.
   (B)   Mileage. Employees required to use their own vehicles on official
village business or for travel approved by the Village Manager as being in the
best interest of the village shall be reimbursed at the rate per mile
established by the Village Manager with the approval of Council, plus any
parking expenses for which receipts are presented to the Finance Director.
   (C)   Travel. Employees will travel economy class by rail or air on official
village business for training or professional development purposes previously
approved by the Village Manager as being in the best interest of the village
and shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, including actual costs
for hotel lodging and a per diem for meals and expenses of non-overnight and
overnight travel for village business in accordance with the per diem rates for
the continental United States set by USGSA for the current fiscal year. Only
days of actual activity are covered. Unless reimbursement is requested, there
will be no need for receipts to accompany per diem costs. No reimbursement
shall be made for purchase of alcoholic beverages for non-related social events
for the entertainment of friends or professional associates while on village
business.
   (D)   Registration fees.  Registration fees for conferences, seminars, or
other such events deemed to be in the best interests of the village, when
approved by the Village Manager, shall be paid for the village, either by
direct payment, in advance or by reimbursement to the employee. If approved by
the Village Manager in advance, an employee may be reimbursed for tuition
expense incurred in taking and successfully completing college course work or
other advanced training to upgrade the employee, the performance of his or her
job duties, and the image of the municipal service. The following table will be
used for educational reimbursement. G.I. benefits and other grants-in-aid for
tuition and will preclude village reimbursement:
 
Grade Tuition Reimbursement
A     100%
B     75%
C     50%
D     0%
F     0%
 
   (E)   No monetary allowance shall be paid an employee in lieu of direct
village payment of insurance expense, village employees may elect to enroll in
the village's group plan for hospitalization and medical insurance but may not
elect to receive monetary compensation in lieu of village payment of insurance
expenses.
(1995 Code, § 37.12) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 96-O-30, passed 11-
12-1996; Am. Ord. 98-O-28, passed 4-27-1998; Am. Ord. 2013-O-4, passed 11-16-
2013)
§ 37.13   LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Illness or death. Serious illness, disability, or death in the
immediate family shall entitle an employee to receive pay for reasonable
absence not to exceed three days and/or 12 weeks without pay upon approval of
the Village Manager.
   (B)   Jury duty. Leave for jury duty and related public services where such
are in the best interest of both the public and the employee may be approved by
the Village Manager with full pay, less any compensation that the employee
receives for performance of such duty or service, provided the employee
promptly returns to work when excused temporarily or permanently from the jury
duty or public service.
   (C)   Vacation. Each full-time employee, including full-time hourly rate
employees, after service of one year with the village, shall have earned and
will be due upon the attainment of the first year of employment, and annually
thereafter, 80 hours of vacation leave with full pay. One year of service shall
be computed from start date to anniversary date which would be one calendar
year.
      (1)   A full-time employee with eight or more years of service with the
village shall have earned and is entitled to 120 hours of vacation leave with
full pay. A full-time employee with 15 or more years of service with the
village shall have earned and is entitled to 160 hours of vacation leave with
full pay. A full-time employee with 22 years of service with the village shall
have earned and is entitled to 200 hours of vacation leave with full pay.
      (2)   Such vacation leave shall accrue to the employee at the rate of
three and one-tenth hours each bi-weekly period for those entitled to 80 hours
per year; four and six tenths each bi-weekly period for those entitled to 120
hours per year; six and two-tenths hours each bi-weekly period for those
entitled to 160 hours per year and seven and seven-tenths hours each bi-weekly
period for those entitled to 200 hours per year.
      (3)   Vacation leave shall be taken in full shift or tour increments
unless an increment of less than a full shift or tour is approved by the
department head.
         (a)   An employee reaching his first anniversary date of employment
with the Village shall be required to schedule and use the vacation leave
earned at the first anniversary date within six months after the first
anniversary date. The Village Manager, in the event of hardship, may extend
this period for a time not to exceed six months.
         (b)   Vacation leave earned at each subsequent anniversary date shall
be scheduled and used during the calendar year in which it is credited to the
employee; it is not cumulative. The Village Manager, in the event of hardship,
may approve vacation leave being carried into the next calendar year. An
employee off on sick leave may use earned vacation time in lieu of earned sick
leave. Otherwise, vacation time earned but not used in the calendar year earned
shall be forfeited, unless the Village Manager has determined that due to
hardship earned vacation may be carried over to the next year. An employee on
leave status who is being paid 100% of base salary shall not earn or be paid
for vacation for the period of leave. Vacation time earned prior to going on
leave status shall be forfeited if not used by the end of the calendar year
unless the Village Manager has granted him an extension pursuant to division
(3)(a) or (b) above.
         (c)   Vacation leave must be scheduled with the approval of the
employee's department head.
         (d)   An employee who resigns without giving at least 14 days prior
written notice will forfeit on the date of resignation any earned and unused
vacation leave, or pay in lieu thereof, at the discretion of the Village
Manager.
         (e)   At the date of the separation from Village service, the Finance
Director shall pro-rate the vacation earned to the date of termination. If the
employee has earned and unused vacation leave, the hours of earned vacation
leave not used times the employee's hourly rate shall be paid to the employee
in the final paycheck. In case of death of an employee, such unused vacation
leave shall be paid on the basis of his or her last base rate of pay at the
rate of one hour for every four hours of accumulated sick leave in accordance
with Ohio R.C. § 2113.04, or to his or her estate.
         (f)   Upon retirement, an employee shall be paid for any unused
vacation pay at the next regular pay date following retirement.
   (D)   Sick leave.  
      (1)   Regular full-time employees will accrue sick leave benefits at the
rate of four and six-tenths hours with pay for each completed 80 hours of
service. Employees may use sick leave, upon approval of the department head or
Village Manager, for absence due to personal illness, pregnancy, injury,
exposure to contagious disease which could be transmitted to other employees,
and for illness, injury, or death in the employee's immediate family.
      (2)   Unused sick leave shall accumulate without limit. When sick leave
is used it shall be deducted from the employee's credit on the basis of one
hour for every one hour of absence from previously scheduled work. An employee
is required to present a medical excuse from a licensed doctor after using more
than three consecutive days of sick leave. The previously accumulated sick
leave of an employee who has been separated from the public service shall be
placed to his or her credit upon his or her re-employment in the public
service, provided that such re-employment takes place within ten years of the
date on which the employee was last terminated from service. An employee who
transfers from a public agency to employment in the village shall be credited
with the unused balance of his or her accumulated sick leave up to the maximum
of 1,500 hours.
      (3)   No sick leave is payable upon separation.
      (4)   Any sick leave accrued prior to the effective date of this section
shall remain as a credit for an employee, and, upon separation from employment,
the account balance shall be disbursed to the employee in the same manner prior
to the effective date of this section. Provided, however, that an employee must
use said accrued sick leave before using any sick leave accrued after the
effective date of this section.
   (E)   Reasonable leaves. Reasonable leaves with pay may be authorized by the
Village Manager for official meetings, training and professional development
found to be in the best interest of the village.
(1995 Code, § 37.13) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 96-O-31, passed 10-
15-1996; Am. Ord. 2003-O-14, passed 2-10-2003; Am. Ord. 2010-O-2, passed 4-26-
2010; Am. Ord. 2023-O-3, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 37.14   COURT DUTY.
   All police officers who will testify in court as representatives of the
village shall be paid for two hours plus parking and mileage for each
appearance if the officer is not on duty at the time. The Village Manager may
establish a maximum limit on the number of court appearances per month for
which compensation will be allowable.
(1995 Code, § 37.14) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.15   HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time employees shall observe the following holidays and be
granted a paid leave of absence therefore, provided the employee works the
immediately preceding work day and the immediately following work day, unless
otherwise excused from work on either of these days by the Village Manager.
      (1)   New Year's Day (January 1).
      (2)   Martin Luther King Day (third Monday in January).
      (3)   President’s Day (third Monday in February).
      (4)   Memorial Day (last Monday in May).
      (5)   Independence Day (July 4).
      (6)   Labor Day (first Monday in September).
      (7)   Columbus Day (second Monday in October).
      (8)   Veteran's Day (November 11).
      (9)   Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November).
      (10)   Christmas (December 25).
   (B)   Police officers shall receive regular pay in the month of December in
lieu of paid leaves of absences on holidays. However, police officer and other
employees required to work on a holiday shall be paid a rate of one and a half
times their regular rate of pay for all hours actually worked, and their pay
shall be in addition to regular holiday compensation.
   (C)   When any holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday immediately following
shall be observed. When any holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday immediately
preceding shall be so observed.
(1995 Code, § 37.15) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 2015-O-2, passed 1-
8-2015)
§ 37.16   ADMINISTRATION RESPONSIBLE FOR PAY PLAN.
   The Village Manager shall be responsible for administering the pay plan for
all positions. He or she shall be responsible for working out arrangements
which will assure the administration of the plan for all employees on an
equitable basis.
(1995 Code, § 37.16) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.17   INTERPRETATION.
   The Village Manager shall be responsible for interpreting the applications
of the plan to pay problems which are not specifically covered by this chapter
using the principles expressed herein as a policy guide.
(1995 Code, § 37.17) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.18   INITIAL ADJUSTMENT TO PAY PLAN.
   The Village Manager is authorized by Council to place fairly and equitably
the salary of each employee within the range of the grade for the class to
which the employee's position has been allocated.
(1995 Code, § 37.18) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.19   REVIEW AND AMENDMENT OF PAY PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to the annual submission of the budget to the Council, the
Village Manager shall have completed a review of the pay plan and policies and
shall submit to the Council his or her findings in the manager's budget message
and in the annual tax budget in accordance with §§
4.02 and
4.03 of the Charter.
   (B)   The rates of pay for each class of positions shall be stated in the
annual appropriation ordinance in accordance with §§
4.09 and
4.10 of the Charter.
(1995 Code, § 37.19) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
   Editor's note: The annual appropriation ordinance is kept on file in the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 37.20   PAY PLAN.
   The pay plan establishing salary grades and salary schedule is on file in
the office of the Clerk of Council and is incorporated herein by reference.
(1995 Code, § 37.20) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.21   EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.
   Each full-time employee shall receive hospitalization, medical and dental
insurance coverage, disability and death benefits, and any other applicable
benefit approved by Council. The forms necessary for coverage shall be
completed at the time of hiring.
(1995 Code, § 37.21) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 97-O-1, passed 2-
10-1997; Am. Ord. 2012-O-14, passed 10-22-2012)
§ 37.22   [RESERVED]
§ 37.23   PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person in the employ of the village or seeking admission thereto
shall be appointed, promoted, reduced, removed or in any way favored or
discriminated against because of race, sex, political or religious opinions or
affiliations, age or physical disability.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or corruptly make any false statement,
certification or appointment held or made under the personnel procedure or in
any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the impartial
execution of such personnel procedures.
   (C)   No person seeking appointment or promotion in the employment of the
village shall either directly or indirectly give, render, or pay any money,
service, or other valuable thing to any person for or on account of or in
connection with his or her appointment, proposed appointment, or proposed
promotion.
   (D)   An employee who receives three garnishments within a 12 month period
may be reprimanded in the following, manner by the Village Manager:
      (1)   For the first garnishment, a written reprimand;
      (2)   For the second garnishment, a written reprimand and 3 days
suspension without pay; or
      (3)   For the third garnishment, a dismissal.
(1995 Code, § 37.23) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 96-O-29, passed 11-
12-1996)
§ 37.24   APPLICATIONS FOR POSITIONS.
   (A)   Announcement. Notice of all examinations for positions shall be
published by posting announcements at the village office, on official bulletin
boards, and in such other places, through such other media and for such period
of time as the Village Manager deems appropriate.
   (B)   Application forms. Applications for positions shall be made on forms
provided by the Village Manager. Such forms shall require information covering
residence, training, experience, references, and other pertinent information,
and may require certificates of one or more examining physicians, and
fingerprinting. All applications must be signed by the person applying.
   (C)   Disqualifications. The Village Manager shall reject any application
which indicates on its face that the applicant does not possess the minimum
qualifications required for the position. Applications also may be rejected for
other good and sufficient reasons such as the applicant:
      (1)   Is not a citizen or registered alien of the United States;
      (2)   Is physically unfit for the performance of duties of the position
to which he or she seeks appointment;
      (3)   Is addicted to the habitual excessive use of drugs or intoxicating
liquor;
      (4)   Has been convicted of a felony;
      (5)   Has made any false statement of any material fact in his or her
application; or
      (6)   Practices, or attempts to practice any deception or fraud in his or
her application.
   (D)   Rejection of application. Whenever an application is rejected, notice
stating reasons of such rejection shall be mailed to the applicant and given to
the Personnel Advisory Board by the Village Manager. A person submitting
insufficient information on his or her application shall be notified to amend
same by submitting supplementary information, providing the time limit for
receiving the application has not expired. Applications whether accepted or
rejected shall remain on file and shall not be returned.
(1995 Code, § 37.24) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.25   EXAMINATIONS FOR POSITIONS.
   (A)   Competitive examination.
      (1)   All appointments and promotions by the Village Manager to positions
may be made according to merit and fitness to be ascertained so far as
practicable by competitive examination. Examination shall be practical and
shall relate to those matters which will test fairly the capability and fitness
of the candidates to discharge efficiently the duties of the classes for which
the examinations are held. Examinations may be assembled or unassembled and may
include written, oral, physical, or performance tests or any combination of
these. They shall take into consideration such factors as education,
experience, aptitude, knowledge, character, physical fitness, and any other
qualification which enters into the determination of the relative merit and
fitness of applicants.
      (2)   The purpose of the oral test is to determine the applicant's
special character traits, intelligence, mental aptitude, and general attitude.
The test may be used to observe the applicant's demeanor and to determine his
or her ability to meet the public.
      (3)   Applicants shall receive credit for seniority in the service of the
village on the written examination if one is given which shall be determined as
follows: 1% of the total grade attainable in such examination for each of the
first four years of such service and 1/2% of such grade for each of the next
ten years of such service. Applicants may receive credit for seniority in
service other than in the village directly relevant to the position subject to
examination as follows: 1/2% of the total grade attainable on the written
examination for each year of service, with a maximum of ten years allowable for
such computation.
      (4)   The identity of applicants shall be concealed in all written
examinations. The Village Manager may require applicants to submit proof of
their age and military service at the time of the examination or prior to
appointment.
      (5)   Competitive examinations shall be open to all applicants who are
citizens of the United States and who meet the standards or requirements fixed
by the Village Manager with regard to experience, character, age, education,
physical condition, and such other factors as may be held to be related to the
ability or the candidate to perform efficiently the duties of the position. No
question in any test shall relate to race, political or religious opinion,
affiliations, or service.
   (B)   Special entrance examination procedure.  For positions such as skilled
labor, the Village Manager may adopt or authorize the use of such procedure as
he or she determines to be appropriate in order to meet the needs of the
service, while assuring the selection of such employees on the basis of merit
and fitness.
      (1)   Such procedures may include:
         (a)   The testing of applicants singly or in groups at periodic
intervals at the place of employment or elsewhere, after such notice as the
Village Manager considers adequate;
         (b)   The registration of applicants who pass a noncompetitive
examination or submit satisfactory evidence of their qualification; or
         (c)   Any variation or combination of the foregoing or other suitable
methods.
      (2)   Special examination procedures shall have the approval of the
Village Manager.
   (C)   Method of rating. Sound measurement techniques and procedures shall be
used in rating the results of tests and determining the relative ranking of the
candidates. In all examinations the minimum rating by which eligibility may be
achieved shall be established by the Village Manager. A minimum rating may also
apply to the ratings of any part of the test. Candidates may be required to
attain at least a minimum rating on each part of the test in order to receive a
passing grade or to be rated on the remaining parts of the test. The final
earned rating of the competitor shall be determined by averaging the earned
rating on each part of the examination in accordance with the weights
established for each part of the examination.
   (D)   Rating of training and experience. Where a rating of experience and
training forms a part of the examination, the Village Manager shall develop
such procedures for the evaluation of these factors as will serve to assist in
the selection of the best qualified candidates. The Village Manager may verify
statements contained in the applications of an applicant and secure further
information concerning his or her character and fitness. If, after a list is
established, information which materially affects the rating of experience and
training, character, or fitness of the applicant, is discovered, the Village
Manager shall make a new rating of the applicant's examination and make the
necessary adjustments in the lists. The Village Manager shall promptly notify
the applicant of any change made in his or her standing and the reasons
therefor.
   (E)   Notification of examination results. Each person who takes an
examination shall be given written notice as to whether he or she passed or
failed in such examination and of his or her relative standing on the list or
of his or her failure to attain a place on the list. Each person in an
examination shall be entitled to inspect his or her rating and his or her own
examination papers, but examination papers shall not be opened to the general
public. Such inspection shall be permitted only during regular business hours
and at the office of the Village Manager and within 30 days of the mailing of
notice. The Personnel Advisory Board shall certify to the Village Manager the
names of those attaining a passing grade.
(1995 Code, § 37.25) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.26   EMPLOYMENT LISTS.
   (A)   Reemployment. Regular employees separated from the service through no
fault of their own shall be placed on a reemployment list in the order of
ratings to be determined by their efficiency and their length of service with
the village. The eligibility of all candidates on reemployment lists will
expire one year from the date on which they became entitled to reemployment
rights.
   (B)   Eligible lists. The Village Manager shall establish and maintain such
eligible lists for the various classes of positions subject hereto as he or she
deems necessary or desirable to meet the needs of the service. On each such
list the eligibles shall be ranked in order of their ratings earned in a test
given for the purpose of establishing such lists. The life of eligible lists
shall be determined by the Village Manager but in no case shall be greater than
two years.
   (C)   (1)   Residence. Resident applicants for positions appointed by the
Village Manager who qualify by examination for any vacancy may receive
preferment over nonresidents who may also qualify if the appointing authority
determines that such preferment is appropriate.
      (2)   Order of names on lists. Except as provided in division (1) above,
names of eligibles shall be placed on the lists in the order of their final
earned rating. In the case of ties in the final ratings, names shall be placed
on the list in the order or ratings earned in the part of the examination given
the greatest weight.
   (D)   Availability of eligibles. It shall be the responsibility of eligibles
to notify the Village Manager in writing of any change of address or other
change affecting availability for employment. However, the Manager may
circulate lists or use other methods to determine at any time the availability
of eligibles. Whenever an eligible submits a written statement restricting the
conditions under which he or she will be available for employment, his or her
name may be withheld from all certifications which do not meet the conditions
which he or she has specified. An eligible may file a new written statement at
any time within the duration of an appointment.
   (E)   Provisional appointments. When an appointing authority finds it
essential to fill a vacancy and the Village Manager is unable to recommend an
eligible for such vacancy because there is no existing appropriate list, or
because there is not a sufficient number of persons on appropriate lists who
are willing to accept appointment, the Village Manager may authorize the
appointing authority to fill the vacancy by means of a provisional appointment.
No provisional appointment shall be made without the prior approval of the
Village Manager and no payment shall be made for services rendered by the
appointee prior to such approval. A provisional appointment shall expire 30
days after a list has been prepared or shall expire automatically six months
from the date of such appointment.
   (F)   Temporary appointments. Temporary appointments for short-term
employment may be made from lists. Successive temporary appointments of the
same person to the same position shall not total more than six months full-time
in a 12-month period. The acceptance or refusal by an eligible of a temporary
appointment shall not affect his or her standing on the list. Employment under
a temporary appointment may or may not, in the discretion of the Village
Manager, be counted as a part of the probationary service period in case of a
subsequent appointment to a permanent position.
   (G)   Removal from employment list. The name of any person appearing on an
employment list may be removed by the Village Manager if such person requests
in writing that his or her name be removed, or if he or she cannot be located
by postal authorities or other means of ordinary communication within five days
following the date of eligibility. The name of any eligible may also be removed
if the name has been certified for appointment three separate times and has not
been appointed or if the eligible has waived appointment twice in the same
class or position. Any cause specified in these rules for the rejection of
applications may likewise be cause for the removal of the name of an eligible
from the employment list on which it appears.
(1995 Code, § 37.26) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.27   METHOD OF FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Appointments not from eligible lists.
      (1)   The Village Manager may fill any vacancy by transfer, reallocation,
or demotion. When a reemployment list contains two or more names of persons who
have been employed in the position to be filled than the number of vacancies to
be filled, appointments shall be made from among the persons numbering three
times the number of vacancies tube filled standing highest on the reemployment
list if the vacancies are not filled by transfer, reallocation, or demotion.
      (2)   If the applicant accepts the appointment and presents himself or
herself for duty within such period of time as the Village Manager shall
prescribe, he or she shall be deemed to be appointed; otherwise, he or she
shall be deemed to have declined the appointment.
   (B)   Emergency appointments.  When an emergency makes it impossible to
delay filling a position, the Village Manager may appoint any qualified person
to such position in order to prevent stoppage of public business or loss or
serious inconvenience to the public. Any such person shall be employed only
during such emergency and for a period not exceeding 30 days in any 12-month
period. A vacancy of which the department head has had a reasonable notice, or
any employment condition of which he or she had, or might with due diligence
have had, previous knowledge, shall not be considered an emergency under this
section. Emergency appointments shall be reported immediately to the Village
Manager.
   (C)   Military replacement appointments. In filling a position vacated as a
result of the granting of a military leave of absence, the Village Manager may
draw on reemployment lists or eligible lists for a person to be recommended to
the appointing authority. If such appointment is effected, the appointee to the
vacated position is to be informed by the Village Manager that his or her
tenure of appointment may be limited to the length of military leave granted to
the regular employee whose military leave of absence created the vacancy. On
the return of the employee granted military leave the replacement employee
shall be placed on the appropriate eligible list if qualified. If the Village
Manager is unable to certify an eligible for such vacancy because of lack of
appropriate lists, the Village Manager may authorize the appointing authority
to fill the vacancy with any qualified person available and the conditions of
employment of such a person shall be similar to those appointed from
appropriate lists as hereinabove stated.
(1995 Code, § 37.27) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.28   PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   Objective. The probationary period shall be regarded as an integral
part of the examination process and shall be utilized for closely observing the
employee's work, for securing the most effective adjustment of a new employee
to his or her position, and for rejecting any employee whose performance does
not meet the required work standard. The probationary period shall not be less
than 60 days nor more than six months in accordance with the discretion of the
Village Manager.
   (B)   Duration. Every person appointed by the Village Manager to a regular
position shall be required to complete successfully a probationary period as
provided.
   (C)   Dismissal. At any time during the probationary period, the appointing
authority with approval of the Village Manager may remove an employee if, in
his or her opinion, observation, and evaluation of the employee during the
probationary period, indicates that such employee is unable or unwilling to
perform the duties of the position satisfactorily or that his or her habits and
dependability do not merit his or her continuance in the service. On such
removal, the appointing authority shall forthwith report in writing to the
Village Manager and to the employee removed, his or her actions and reasons
therefor. An employee who is found to have been appointed through fraud or
error shall be removed.
   (D)   Probationary period reports. At least ten days prior to the expiration
of an employee's probationary period, the appointing authority shall notify the
Village Manager in writing whether the services of the employee have been
satisfactory and whether he or she will continue the employee in his or her
position. A copy of such notice shall be given to the employee.
   (E)   Restoration of dismissed employee to appropriate list. If an employee
is removed from his or her position during, or the end of, his or her
probationary period and the Village Manager determines that he or she is
suitable for appointment to another position, his or her name may be restored
to the list from which it was certified.
   (F)   An employee promoted to fill a vacancy who does not successfully
complete his or her probationary period. An employee promoted to fill a vacancy
who does not successfully complete his or her probationary period may, on
recommendation of the appointing authority be reinstated in a position in the
class occupied by the employee immediately prior to his or her promotion if a
vacancy in that class exists at that time or shall be placed on a reemployment
list awaiting appointment for a position for which he or she is eligible.
(1995 Code, § 37.28) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.29   DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   Employees appointed by the Village Manager may be penalized for
violation of personnel policies or departmental rules and regulations.
Disciplinary action may take the form of an oral or written reprimand or a
penalty. Oral reprimands should be verified with a written incident report and
made a part of the employee's permanent personnel file. The Village Manager, or
a department head or immediate supervisor with the approval of the Village
Manager, may discipline an employee more severely than a reprimand. If an
employee receives two written reprimands for the same or different offenses
within a period of 12 consecutive months, he or she may, along with his or her
second reprimand, receive a suspension without pay, for a period of time
commensurate with the severity of the accumulated offenses. If an employee
receives three written reprimands for the same or different offenses within a
period of 12 consecutive months, he or she may at the time of issuance of the
third reprimand, thereupon be demoted or discharged.
   (B)   Any action which reflects discredit on the municipal service or is a
direct hindrance to the effective performance of the municipal government
functions shall be considered just cause for disciplinary action against any
employee. Violation of personnel policies constituting just cause for
disciplinary action, whether reprimand, suspension, demotion, or discharge
depending on the severity, are listed below, although charges may be based on
causes or complaints other than those listed.
      (1)   Inattentiveness to work, failure to start work at the designated
time, quitting work before the proper time, or leaving the employer's premises
during working hours outside the line of duty without authorization from the
director of the department or Village Manager.
      (2)   Gross neglect of duty or refusal to comply with lawful instructions
of supervision or management, unless such instructions are injurious to the
employee's or general public's health or safety or contrary to the employee's
professional ethics.
      (3)   Horseplay or deliberate or careless conduct endangering the safety
of oneself or other employees, including the provoking of or instigating of a
fight during working hours or on village premises.
      (4)   Insubordination.
      (5)   Incompetency and inefficiency in performance of job duties.
      (6)   Carelessness or negligence with the moneys or the property of the
village, including the use of village equipment.
      (7)   Theft or intentional destruction of the village's property or
another employee's property.
      (8)   Discussion with unauthorized persons of any confidential
information gained through employment with the village.
      (9)   Using, or threatening to use, or attempting to use personal or
political influence in an effort to secure some special considerations as a
village employee.
      (10)   Inducing or attempting to induce any employee in the service of
the village to commit an unlawful act, or to act in violation of any lawful
departmental or official regulations, orders, or professional ethics.
      (11)   Solicitation or acceptance from any person, or participation in
any fee, gift or other valuable thing in the hope or expectation of receiving a
more preferential treatment than that accorded other persons.
      (12)   Commission of acts unbecoming an incumbent of the particular
municipal office or position held which render disciplinary action necessary or
desirable for the economical or efficient conduct of the business of the
village or the best interest of the municipal government.
      (13)   Offensive conduct or language toward the public or toward village
officers or employees.
      (14)   Use of abusive or improper treatment to a person in custody,
provided the act committed was not necessarily or lawfully done in self defense
or to protect the lives of others, or to prevent the escape of a person
lawfully in custody.
      (15)   Immoral or indecent conduct or conviction of a felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude while an employee of the village.
      (16)   The taking of intoxicating beverages or drugs while on duty, being
under the influence of intoxicants or narcotics while on duty or the habitual
use of alcoholic beverages or narcotics to excess.
      (17)   Abuse of appeal rights by filing a totally unjustified or
unreasonable appeal with the Personnel Advisory Board.
      (18)   Intentional falsification, destruction or removal of personnel
records, work records, time reports, or other village records.
      (19)   Failure to report to work without giving the department head,
immediate supervisor, Village Manager or other authorized village staff member
notice of absence within two hours after the beginning of an employee's
scheduled work day, unless it is impossible to give such notice.
      (20)   Excessive absenteeism or tardiness, including abuse of sick leave
privileges.
      (21)   Absence from duty without leave contrary to these policies, or
failure to report after leave of absence has expired, or after such leave of
absence has been disapproved or revoked or canceled by the proper authority.
      (22)   Sleeping on duty.
      (23)   Any other action that reflects discredit on the municipal service
or is a direct hindrance to the effective performance of the municipal
government function.
      (24)   After receipt of one garnishment, an employee is given a written
reprimand. After two garnishments or more, the employee may be suspended up to
four days to cover financial costs and administrative costs to the village.
(1995 Code, § 37.29) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.30   PENALTIES AND SEPARATIONS.
   Penalties comprise three groups: suspension, demotion, and discharge.
Separations without fault embrace two types: layoff and resignation.
   (A)   Suspension. A department head, with the consent of the Village
Manager, may for disciplinary purposes suspend without pay any employee in his
or her department for such length of time as he or she considers appropriate.
The Village Manager shall be furnished with a written statement specifically
setting forth reasons for such action and a copy shall be furnished to the
affected employee upon his or her written request.
   (B)   Demotion. A department head, with the consent of the Village Manager,
may demote an employee for just cause. No demotion shall be made as a
disciplinary action unless the employee to be demoted is eligible for
employment in a lower class and shall not be made if any regular employee in
the lower class would be laid off by reason of this action. The Village Manager
shall be furnished with a written statement specifically setting forth reasons
for such action and a copy shall be furnished to the employee upon his or her
written request.
   (C)   Layoffs. A department head, with the consent of the Village Manager,
may lay off an employee when he or she deems it necessary due to the abolition
of the position, a material change in duties or organization, or other reasons
which do not reflect discredit on the service of the employee. The duties
performed by an employee laid off may be reassigned to other employees already
working who hold positions in appropriate classes. No regular employee shall be
laid off while another person is employed on a probationary, provisional, or
temporary basis in the same class in the department. No regular employee who is
on probation shall be laid off while another person is employed on a temporary
or provisional basis in the same class in the department.
   (D)   Order of layoff. Layoff of employees shall be made in inverse order of
a current rating of employees determined on the basis of service reports or
other pertinent data and length of service in the class in the department or
other organizational unit involved in the layoff. If it is found that two or
more persons in the organizational unit in which layoffs are to be made have
equal ratings determined on the basis of seniority and service reports or other
pertinent data, the order of layoff in all such cases of the tie shall be in
the inverse order of the date when an employee first entered the service.
   (E)   Notice of layoff. A department head shall give written notice to the
Village Manager and to the employee of any proposed layoff and reasons
therefor. Such notice must be given a reasonable time before the effective date
thereof. In the case of temporary, part-time or other occasional employment of
regular employees, the department head may notify in writing such employees and
the Village Manager at the time of appointment the date such employment will
terminate. Such notice shall be deemed to meet notification requirements.
Written notices of layoff indicating reasons for such action may be given
temporary or emergency employees at any time prior to the effective date of
layoff.
   (F)   Resignations. To resign in good standing, an employee must give the
appointing authority at least 14 calendar days prior notice unless the
appointing authority, because of extenuating circumstances, agrees to permit a
shorter period of notice. A written resignation shall be supplied by the
employee to the appointing authority giving reasons for leaving. The
resignation shall be forwarded to the Village Manager with a statement by the
appointing authority as to the resigned employee's service performance and
other pertinent information concerning the cause of resignation. Failure to
comply with this rule shall be entered on the service record of the employee,
may be cause for loss of payment for accumulated annual vacation leave, and may
be cause for denying future employment by the village. The resignation of an
employee who fails to give notice shall be reported by the department head
immediately. The Village Manager may take steps to verify reasons for any
resignations.
   (G)   Department heads. If a proposed action contemplated above would affect
a department head, the action shall be taken by the Village Manager in lieu of
the department head.
(1995 Code, § 37.30) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.31   COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES.
   (A)   Employee complaints shall first be discussed with employee's immediate
supervisor. If the matter is not resolved, the employee shall present the
complaint to his or her department head.
   (B)   After discussing his or her complaint with his or her supervisor and
department head, if the employee's complaint is still not resolved, he or she
shall register his or her complaint the Village Manager either in writing or by
appearing in person, stating the reason for his or her complaint or grievance,
including all pertinent facts of the case.
   (C)   Within five days after registering of a complaint, the Village Manager
may call a meeting which will include the department head, the complainant, and
any other person or persons involved in the complaint. The Village Manager will
preside at the meeting and hear the entire case and obtain all the facts.
   (D)   The Village Manager shall make a written report of his or her findings
and make a decision within three days.
   (E)   If the aggrieved employee feels that he or she has not received a fair
hearing or that the problem has not been satisfactorily and justly resolved he
or she may appeal to the Personnel Advisory Board by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Board, via the Village Manager, within 20 days of the rendering
of the decision by the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 37.31) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.32   DAMAGE TO VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person who is in the employ of the village shall willfully,
wrongfully, wantonly, recklessly, carelessly, or negligently damage or cause to
be damaged any property of the village.
   (B)   An employee is expected to exercise due care in his or her use of
village property, and to utilize such property only for authorized purposes.
Negligence in the care and use of village property will be considered cause for
suspension or dismissal.
   (C)   Unauthorized removal of village property from the premises, or its
conversion to personal use, will be considered cause for suspension or
dismissal.
   (D)   Village property issued to an employee must be returned to the village
at the time he or she terminates employment or when it is requested by his or
her department head or his designated representative. The value of any property
issued and not returned will be deducted from an employee's paycheck.
(1995 Code, § 37.32) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 79-O-4, passed 4-9-
1979)
§ 37.33   POLITICAL ACTIVITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibitions. The following restrictions are applicable to all
employees of the village as well as to trainees, students and members of
governing or administering boards and advisory committees. The restrictions
prohibit:
      (1)   Serving on or for any political committee, party or similar
organization or serving as a delegate or alternate to a caucus or party
convention;
      (2)   Soliciting or handling political contributions, distributing
campaign literature, or initiating or circulating political petitions;
      (3)   Addressing, organizing, or serving as an officer of a political
party;
      (4)   Addressing or taking an active part in preparing, organizing, or
conducting a political meeting or rally;
      (5)   Canvassing a district or soliciting votes or helping to get out
voters on election day;
      (6)   Acting as an election officer in a capacity which may involve
partisanship or partisan political management;
      (7)   Publishing or being connected editorially or managerially with any
newspaper generally known as partisan from a political standpoint;
      (8)   Becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any public
office, which is to be filled in an election in which party candidates are
involved. Becoming prominently identified with any political movement, party,
or faction, or with the success or failure of any candidate for election to
public office; and
      (9)   Writing for publication or publishing any letter or article, signed
or unsigned, in favor of or against any political party or candidate.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following persons are exempt from the provisions of division
(A) above that deal with taking active part in political management or
political campaigns:
         (a)   The Mayor;
         (b)   Elected heads of executive departments of any municipality who
are not classified under a state or municipal merit or Civil Service
Commission; and
         (c)   Officers holding elective offices.
      (2)   An employee or trainee of the village may:
         (a)   Register to vote as he or she chooses;
         (b)   Express his or her opinion on political subjects and candidates;
         (c)   Be a member of a party or political club;
         (d)   Make voluntary contributions of money to a political campaign or
party;
         (e)   Participate in educational efforts related to issues and to the
political process so long as this is done in a politically neutral manner;
         (f)   Attend political meetings and rallies;
         (g)   Display a political sticker on his or her private automobile;
and
         (h)   Village employees may be prohibited from engaging in outside
employment during the working day. This prohibition is to be interpreted
broadly to include the use of the village's funds, employees, equipment, or any
other resources for the personal gain of any individual. Outside employment is
permitted provided:
            1.   It does not interfere with the efficient performance of the
employee's duties in his or her village job, does not involve a conflict of
interest or conflict with the employee's duties in his or her village job; or
            2.   It does not occur during the employee's regular or assigned
working hours for the village, unless the employee, during the entire day on
which such employment occurs has received approval to either on vacation or
compensatory leave, or leave without pay.
      (3)   Employees are encouraged to attend functions given by the village;
however, it is not mandatory that they attend. If an employee does not desire
to attend any function given by the village, it shall in no way hinder his or
her employment or increment status. Employees are not required to inform their
employers as to their whereabouts on nonworking days and are allowed to attend
whatever they choose so long as it does not conflict with the laws under
division (A) above.
(1995 Code, § 37.33) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.34   EMPLOYMENT INELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   No person shall be employed by the village while he or she or a member
of his or her immediate family serves on a board, committee, or other major
policy advisory body which either by rule or practice, regularly nominates,
recommends, or screens applicants for the department in which he or she is
employed.
   (B)   No person shall be employed by the village while he or she or a member
of his or her immediate family serves on a board or committee which has the
authority to order personnel actions affecting his or her job.
   (C)   Neither the village nor any of its departments shall employ a person
in a position over which a member of his or her immediate family exercises
supervisory authority.
(1995 Code, § 37.34) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.35   RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL PERSONS. Everyone now employed or hereafter employed by the village,
including those defined by Charter §§
8.01 and
8.02. Exempt and nonexempt employee exceptions shall be those temporary
employees of exceptional professional or scientific qualifications engaged as
consultants for limited periods of time.
      RESIDE. To live, dwell, abide, stay, remain, lodge in the village.
   (B)   Bona fide residents. All persons now employed in or hereafter
appointed to a permanent position in the village service shall be bona fide
residents of the village, six months from the time of appointment, or in the
case of positions having a probationary period, six months after the completion
thereof, except as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   All present employees of the village who at the time of the
effective date of this section may reside outside the limits of the village, so
long as they remain at their presently indicated residences;
      (2)   Employees in classifications in which there are shortages of
qualified applicants as determined by the Village Manager with the approval of
Council;
      (3)   The department heads appointed by the Village Manager shall be
required to reside within the corporate limits of the village, provided
however, such officers may reside outside of the village with the authorization
of Council; or
      (4)   The Village Manager appointed by Village Council shall be required
to reside within the corporate limits of the village unless Council authorizes
otherwise.
   (C)   Appeal. Any employee who believes to be aggrieved by the terms of this
section shall have the right to appeal to the Village Manager requesting
permission to live outside the village. The Village Manager may grant
permission to live outside the corporate limits of the village with the
approval of Council.
(1995 Code, § 37.35) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 77-O-18, passed 4-
25-1977)
Cross-reference:
   Qualifications, see Charter §
3.02
§ 37.36   TENURE.
   The village's employees are assured tenure only to the extent of the
availability of funds for the financing of the program in which they work
unless vacancies are open.
(1995 Code, § 37.36) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.37   WORKING SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The basic work week consists of 40 hour, from Monday through Friday.
Office hours are from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. daily for staff. Hours for police
officers and maintenance crews are from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday, except for police officers who work in shifts, their work schedule will
be posted monthly by the department head. However, whenever necessary, the
Police and Maintenance Departments will work or be available for work 24 hours
per day in cases of emergencies.
   (B)   One hour shall be set aside for lunch for every full-time employee, in
accordance with a suitable work schedule to be determined by his or her
supervisor. All lunch hours shall begin at 12:00 noon and end not later than 1:
30 p.m. In the absence of a receptionist, lunch may be rotated among the office
staff for adequate coverage of office and telephone.
   (C)   A 15-minute rest period, twice a day (morning and afternoon) may be
taken at a scheduled or nonscheduled time, provided that adequate coverage of
telephones is arranged.
   (D)   Part-time employees shall work in accordance with prearranged
schedules.
   (E)   An employee who is absent from work and whose absence is not
chargeable to vacation, sick leave, or optional leave, may at the discretion of
his or her supervisor, make up the time lost by working at times other than
regular working hours, unless a temporary employee has been hired or funds
spent to replace the absentee.
   (F)   The hours and working conditions for auxiliary police members will be
as follows.
      (1)   All auxiliary police members shall work no less than 40 hours per
month to maintain their status as active members.
      (2)   All auxiliary police members shall submit to the senior
administrative auxiliary police officer on or before the twenty-sixth day of
each month, a schedule of their availability for work. Upon receipt of this
information, the senior administrative auxiliary police officer will schedule
such auxiliary police officer for 20 hours of duty, and such officer will be
permitted to sign for 20 hours for a total of 40 minimum hours of duty. Such
officer may arrange with the senior administrative auxiliary police officer to
sign for additional hours of duty.
      (3)   Changes in the work schedule of an auxiliary police officer can
only be made by the supervisory auxiliary police officer.
      (4)   Auxiliary police officers are required to complete a time sheet for
all hours worked and submit it to the senior administrative auxiliary police
officer on the regularly scheduled village payroll periods.
(1995 Code, § 37.37) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 96-O-28, passed 9-
9-1996)
§ 37.38   SALARIES.
   (A)   Each employee is paid on a two-week basis. The village pay period
commences on Saturday and ends on Friday, with the pay day occurring biweekly.
Employees are paid not later than 12:00 noon.
   (B)   Should a payday coincide with a nonscheduled working day, paychecks
will be distributed on the preceding working day not later than 12:00 noon.
   (C)   The village's policy is that there will be no advances made on payroll
except in case of emergency, with the exception of vacation pay which will be
paid the Friday preceding the vacation period.
   (D)   All payroll checks that remain undistributed, due to an employee's
absence at the end of the various pay periods, should be returned to the
finance office for safekeeping.
(1995 Code, § 37.38) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 37.39   TIME CARD AND TIME SHEETS.
   The following village employees will use time cards or time sheets to be
filled in by pen or by use of the time clock:
   (A)   Police Department, except the Chief of Police; and
   (B)   Any other employee as designated by the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 37.39) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 99-O-31, passed 7-
12-1999)
§ 37.40   OVERTIME COMPENSATION AND COMPENSATORY TIME OFF.
   (A)   All employees in nonexempt service as defined in Article VIII, Lincoln
Heights Charter are entitled to overtime compensation when earned.
   (B)   Overtime commences after regular employees have worked 40 hours per
week and after police officers have worked 43 hours per week.
   (C)   Nonexempt employees are entitled to one and one half hours of overtime
compensation time for each hour worked over the number of hours set forth in
division (B) above.
   (D)   Instead of overtime compensation, an employee may choose to take
compensatory time off.
   (E)   Compensatory time is based upon actual time worked and does not
include personal leave, sick leave, vacation leave or any other leave of
absence.
   (F)   For all staff except police, compensatory time must be used within 60
days of being earned. A maximum of 25 compensatory time hours or 25 overtime
hours may be accrued before the employee must take compensatory time off or be
paid overtime compensation. Any decision by the manager to approve hours above
the 25 hours or carried over beyond 60 days should be brought before Council.
   (G)   Unused compensatory time shall be payable to the employee upon
separation from village service.
(1995 Code, § 37.40) (Ord. 75-53, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 99-O-31, passed 7-
12-1999; Am. Ord. 2003-O-01, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 37.41   USE OF VILLAGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle belonging to the village may be used by any person without
permission from the Village Manager.
   (B)   No vehicle belonging to the village may leave the legal boundaries of
the village unless:
      (1)   A trip ticket has been secured from the Village Manager's office
date stamped noting destination, nature of business, and mileage on odometer;
      (2)   For clarification, no person may use any village-owned vehicles for
personal uses such as going to the store or picking anyone up for work; and
      (3)   The only exception to this rule shall be for the Police Department.
They may leave the village for official business and must notify the dispatcher
before leaving and on return. Also the police may leave the village to purchase
carry-out lunch. However, they may not stay away from the village for more than
½ hour and must log in and out with the dispatcher, local or county.
   (C)   The Fire Chief's car is a business vehicle and shall be used only for
business and by the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief may designate some other
firefighter to operate the vehicle for business purposes only.
   (D)   Immediate disciplinary action shall be administered by the Village
Manager toward any and all violators of this section.
(1995 Code, § 37.41) (Ord. 80-O-28, passed 5-12-1980; Am. Ord. 80-O-35, passed
6-23-1980)
§ 37.42   ALCOHOL AND DRUG TESTING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Village Manager will enforce a drug and alcohol abuse/
testing policy for all employees of the village. It is the intent of this
policy to provide an alcohol-free, drug-free, safe working environment for all
village employees. Employees of the village are expected to be in suitable
mental and physical condition at work, to perform their jobs satisfactorily and
to behave appropriately. The use of drugs, other than for medicinal purposes
interferes with such expectations and will not be tolerated. The purpose of
this policy is to provide consistent and relevant guidelines for all employees
regarding alcohol and other drug-use situations.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The possession, transfer, sale, use of or impairment caused by
alcohol and drugs, legal or illegal, during work hours or meal breaks, whether
on or off municipal property, will be controlled by the procedures specified in
this policy. Violations of this policy will result in discipline, including
termination of employment or pursuing legal prosecution. Substances included
are all forms of alcohol, narcotics, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens and
marijuana, and any other substance that affects behavior.
      (2)   Excluded from this prohibition is the use of drugs for medical
purposes. When prescribed or over-the-counter drugs may affect behavior and
performance, employees are encouraged to advise their supervisor that they are
taking such drugs for medical reasons, and medical evaluation may be required.
An employee is obligated to advise his or her immediate supervisor of any job
restrictions or limitations known by the employee to be associated with the use
of the medication involved. Where such use of drugs adversely affects job
performance, it is in the best interest of the employee, co-workers and
municipality that the employee be relieved of his or her duties and placed on
sick leave.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Prospective employees may be required to submit to drug and alcohol
screening tests.
      (2)   Use of village property, including but not limited to lockers,
vehicles, desks and any other property by an employee is conditioned upon the
right of the Village Manager or his or her designated representative to search
such village property for drugs, alcohol, firearms, or other improper
materials.
      (3)   When the Village Manager has a reasonable suspicion that there is a
violation by an employee of the drug and alcohol policy, the Village Manager or
his or her designated representative may search the village property or
personal property in the possession of such employee.
      (4)   Among the circumstances that may provide “reasonable” suspicion
are:
         (a)   The inability of an employee to perform his or her assigned
duties;
         (b)   Reduced productivity in work by a village employee;
         (c)   An accident resulting in on-duty injury to the employee or a co-
worker;
         (d)   A high or unusual pattern of absenteeism;
         (e)   Other behavior patterns inconsistent with previous work
performance;
         (f)   Any other conduct or circumstances giving rise to a suspicion
that an employee is in violation of the drug and alcohol policy of the village;
         (g)   As a condition of continued employment, all village employees
consent to random drug testing at any time and for any reason. To the extent
the foregoing is inconsistent with the Village of Lincoln Heights Employee
Handbook, or any other policy or procedure, both written and oral, the
foregoing random drug testing policy shall control.
         (h)   It is mandatory that any employee involved in any of the
situations described below at any time shall immediately submit to a drug or
alcohol test, unless the Village Manager specifies a later time:
            1.   There is an accident of any nature involving a Village vehicle
or Village owned equipment; or
            2.   There is any type of bodily injury, including without
limitation a fatality, or any type of property damage in any way involving a
Village vehicle or Village owned equipment; or
            3.   Any type of injury or accident in the workplace or while on
duty.
(1995 Code, § 37.42) (Ord. 90-O-10, passed 3-14-1990; Am. Ord. 97-O-56, passed
8-25-1997; Am. Ord. 2013-O-2, passed 6-8-2013)
§ 37.43   WORKERS' COMPENSATION.
   (A)   When an employee sustains a work-related injury or contracts an
occupational disease, the village shall allow him or her the first week of
regular wages which is disallowed him or her by Ohio R.C. § 4123.55, under
workers' compensation.
   (B)   Commencing with the second week of a work-related injury or
occupational disease of an employee, the village may advance such employee
regular compensation for a reasonable period of time until the commencement of
payments under the Workers' Compensation Act, provided, however, that such
employee shall sign an agreement made part, hereby adopted by reference,
authorizing the Bureau of Workers' Compensation to mail his or her warrants for
compensation in care of the village and provided further that such employee
agrees to endorse such warrants received from the Workers' Compensation Bureau
in favor of the village, in order that the village may be reimbursed to the
extent of the advancements made to such employee.
(Ord. 94-O-29, passed 9-12-1994)
§ 37.44   ADVANCEMENT OF REGULAR WAGES.
   When an employee sustains a non-work-related illness, the village shall
allow him or her the first week of regular wages prior to the commencement of
short-term disability benefits under Community National Insurance Policy.
(Ord. 94-O-28, passed 6-27-1994)
§ 37.45   EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   Council hereby approves and adopts the Village of Lincoln Heights
Employee Handbook.
   (B)   The Village of Lincoln Heights Employee Handbook is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (C)   An official copy of the Village of Lincoln Heights Employee Handbook
will be kept on file in the office of the Clerk of Council.
(Ord. 98-O-17, passed 5-11-1998; Am. Ord. 2008-O-12, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 37.46   REPORTING AN INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Whenever a department head investigates, receives information of an
investigation, or causes an investigation to be conducted into the actions or
conduct of a village employee under his or her supervision, that are related to
the performance of the employee’s duties as a village employee, the department
head shall so notify the Village Manager immediately and make a written report
in 24 hours.
   (B)   Failure to report such an investigation shall constitute
insubordination.
(Ord. 2003-O-33, passed 6-23-2003)
Part Two
CHAPTER 38: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
Rules of Council
Part 1. General Provisions
   
38.001   Effective date
   
38.002   Amendment and suspension of the Village Council rules
   
38.003   Procedure in absence of rule
Part 2. Public Access
   
38.015   Meetings open to the public
   
38.016   Notice of meeting
   
38.017   Journal of proceedings
   
38.018   Copies of documents
   
38.019   Permission required to address the Village Council
   
38.020   Service costs for applicants
   
38.021   Executive session
   
38.022   Disruption of Council meetings
Part 3. Village Council Chamber
   
38.030   Village Council chamber
   
38.031   Officers of the Village Council
   
38.032   Clerk of the Village Council
Part 4. Meetings
   
38.040   Regular meetings
   
38.041   Special meetings
   
38.042   Adjourned meetings
Part 5. Chair
   
38.050   Chair
   
38.051   Temporary Chair
   
38.052   Preservation of order
   
38.053   Appeals from decisions of Chair
   
38.054   Questions stated
   
38.055   Presiding officer leaving chair
   
38.056   Clerk
   
38.057   Addressing Chair
Part 6. Members
   
38.065   Duty to vote
   
38.066   Right to floor
   
38.067   Limitation of debate
   
38.068   Separation of question
   
38.069   Roll call vote
   
38.070   Tie vote
   
38.071   Change of vote
   
38.072   Personal privilege
   
38.073   Dissents and protests
   
38.074   Excusal from attendance
   
38.075   Excusal during meeting
   
38.076   Non-Disclosure of confidential information
   
38.077   Allowance for conferences and training
Part 7. Conduct of Business
   
38.085   Order of business
   
38.086   Call to order
   
38.087   Roll call
   
38.088   Quorum
   
38.089   Filing of the journal
   
38.090   Presentations by member; by leaves
   
38.091   Special orders
   
38.092   Printed calendar
   
38.093   Supplemental calendar
   
38.094   Council referrals
   
38.095   Referrals of state and federal joint proposals
Part 8. Motions
   
38.105   Motions; general
   
38.106   Motions; new subject
   
38.107   Procedural motion prior to debate; to defer consideration
   
38.108   Procedural motion during debate
   
38.109   Motion to reconsider
   
38.110   Motion to take recess
   
38.111   Motion to adjourn
Part 9. Ordinances and Resolutions
   
38.120   Ordinances drafted
   
38.121   Reading of ordinances
   
38.122   Suspension of three readings
   
38.123   Amendments
   
38.124   Improper amendments
   
38.125   Adoption of ordinances
   
38.126   Emergency ordinances
   
38.127   Publication of ordinances
   
38.128   Legislative resolutions
   
38.129   Resolutions
   
38.130   Adoption of resolutions
Part 10. Committees
   
38.140   Appointment of committees
   
38.141   Standing committees
   
38.142   Special committee
   
38.143   Committee meetings
   
38.144   Secretary to committees
   
38.145   Committee quorum
   
38.146   Reference to committee
   
38.147   Committee reports
   
38.148   Relieving committee from further consideration
   
38.149   Committee of the Whole
   
38.150   Public hearings
Cross-reference:
   Council, see Charter
Article II
   Council procedures, see Charter §
2.11
   General powers and duties of Council, see Charter §
2.05
   Stipends, expenses, see Charter §
2.08
RULES OF COUNCIL
Part 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001   EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The following rules shall be in effect upon adoption by the Village Council
and until such time as amended, rescinded or new rules adopted in the manner
provided by these rules.
(1995 Code, § 38.001)
§ 38.002   AMENDMENT AND SUSPENSION OF THE VILLAGE COUNCIL RULES.
   Rules may be amended, rescinded or adopted by the five votes of the members
elected to the Village Council. The amendment, recision or new rule shall go
into effect immediately unless a different effective date is specified. Except
where the Charter otherwise provides, any rule may be suspended at a meeting by
a majority of the Village Council without debate.
(1995 Code, § 38.002)
§ 38.003   PROCEDURE IN ABSENCE OF RULE.
   In the absence of a rule, the Chair shall declare the procedure to be
followed subject to appeal. Upon appeal, the Chair shall be sustained unless a
majority of the Village Council objects to the procedure declared by the Chair,
in which case the current edition of Robert's Rules of Order shall govern.
(1995 Code, § 38.003)
Part 2. PUBLIC ACCESS
§ 38.015   MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the Village Council and standing committees shall be open to
the public; however, the Village Council and its committees may at any meeting
hold an executive session closed to the public pursuant to the law of Ohio and
as provided in these rules. Except during executive sessions, all meetings of
the village the Village Council and its standing committees shall be open to
the news media and shall be subject to recording by radio, television and
photographic services at any time provided that such arrangements do not
interfere with the orderly conduct of the meeting.
(1995 Code, § 38.015)
§ 38.016   NOTICE OF MEETING.
   (A)   Notice of the time and place of regularly scheduled meetings of the
Village Council and the Village Council committees shall be posted in the
office of the Clerk of the Village Council, Village Hall, 1201 Steffen Avenue,
Lincoln Heights, Ohio. If the Village Council or a committee adopt a different
day or hour for its regularly scheduled meetings than that provided in these
rules, notice shall be posted in the office of the Clerk of the Village Council
and in places designated by ordinance of the Village Council.
   (B)   Notice of special meetings of the Village Council shall be
communicated to Village Council members at least 24 hours before such meeting.
Such notice shall be in writing and delivered to their place of residence or to
any location designated by the Village Council member in writing and filed with
the Clerk of Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.016) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-2, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 38.017   JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The journal of proceedings of the Village Council shall be kept by the Clerk
of the Village Council and shall be open to public inspection at all reasonable
times. The journal of proceedings of the Village Council for regularly
scheduled meetings shall be prepared and delivered to Council for review five
business days following such regular meeting. The journal of proceedings of the
Village Council for special meetings shall be prepared and delivered to Council
for review ten business days following such special or emergency meeting. At
the desire of any member, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be entered upon the
journal.
(1995 Code, § 38.017) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-3, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 38.018   COPIES OF DOCUMENTS.
   The Clerk of the Village Council shall make available to the public all
records under the Clerk's control required to be made available under the Ohio
Public Records Law. The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee fixed by the Village
Council to cover the administrative costs, including personnel costs, of
providing such records. Fees for copies shall be posted in the office of the
Clerk of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.018)
§ 38.019   PERMISSION REQUIRED TO ADDRESS THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Persons other than members of the Village Council, village officials
and representatives from news media shall not be permitted upon the floor of
the Village Council, or to address the Village Council, except that a person
may be granted the privilege of the floor by majority vote of the Village
Council.
   (B)   Any person desiring to make a public comment during a regular or
special meeting of the Village Council may be granted the privilege of the
floor for such purpose for three (3) minutes with the consent of the Village
Council by providing a written request to do so to the Clerk of the Village
Council or by making a telephone call to said Clerk not later than 5:00 p.m. on
the evening of such meeting.
   (C)   Persons addressing the Village Council shall state their name, address
and person or organization they represent.
   (D)   If anyone other than a village official desires to speak to a member
of the Village Council or have a member of the Village Council respond to a
public comment while the Village Council is in session, the member, if
agreeable to the request, shall retire to the rear of the Village Council
chamber or leave the chamber during the conversation.
(1995 Code, § 38.019) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-24.1, passed 6-9-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-O-
11, passed - - )
§ 38.020   SERVICE COSTS FOR APPLICANTS.
   Whenever application is made for the grant of a franchise right, change of
street name, amendment of building zone map, street vacation, or for any other
grant, right, franchise or privilege, resulting in special benefit to the
applicant, the Clerk shall require the agent of such applicant to deposit with
the Village Director of Finance an amount estimated to be sufficient to pay the
costs of any advertising, recording, printing, reproduction or other special
services arising by reason of such application. Any unused balance of such
deposit shall be refunded to the agent of the petitioners on voucher of the
Clerk of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.020)
§ 38.021   EXECUTIVE SESSION.
   The Village Council or a committee of the Village Council may hold an
executive session at any regular or special meeting only after a majority
determines by roll call vote to hold the session for the sole purpose of
considering one of the following topics. The motion and vote to hold the
executive session shall state which one or more of the approved listed matters
are to be considered at the executive session.
   (A)   When otherwise permitted by law, to consider the appointment,
employment, dismissal, discipline, promotion, demotion, or compensation of a
public employee or official, or the investigation of charges or complaints
against a public employee, official, licensee, or regulated individual, unless
the public employee, official, licensee or regulated individual requests a
public hearing.
   (B)   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes or the sale
of property at competitive bidding, if premature disclosure of information
would give an unfair competitive or bargaining advantage to a person whose
personal, private interest is adverse to the general public interest.
   (C)   Conferences with an attorney for the Village Council concerning
disputes involving it that are the subject of pending or imminent court action.
   (D)   Preparing for, conducting, or reviewing negotiations or bargaining
session with public employees concerning their compensation or other terms and
conditions of their employment.
   (E)   Matters required to be kept confidential by federal law or rules of
state statutes.
   (F)   Specialized details of security arrangements where disclosure of the
matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for the purpose
of committing, or avoiding prosecution for, a violation of the law.
(1995 Code, § 38.021)
Cross-reference:
   Council meetings, see Charter §
2.11
§ 38.022   DISRUPTION OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Any person who, by their actions, prevents the conduct of, or disrupts
a Council meeting, committee or commission meeting, shall be removed by request
of the Chair. The person shall, thereafter, be prohibited from addressing
Council at any subsequent Council meeting, Committee meeting, or Commission
meeting for the following 30 days.
   (B)   Refusal to abide by the prohibition may result in criminal charges.
(Ord. 2005-O-14, passed 4-11-2005)
Part 3. VILLAGE COUNCIL CHAMBER
§ 38.030   VILLAGE COUNCIL CHAMBER.
   The Village Council chamber shall be under the supervision and control of
the Clerk of the Village Council when the Village Council is not in session.
Except as herein provided it shall be used solely by the Village Council and
its committees for the transaction of public business of the village. If not
required for such use, the Clerk may permit their use for the transaction of
other public business. Application for such use must be made to the Clerk of
the Village Council. Any permission granted may be canceled or revoked by the
Clerk forthwith where necessary for the protection of village property, the
preservation of order, the transaction of public business of the village, or
other sufficient reason.
(1995 Code, § 38.030)
§ 38.031   OFFICERS OF THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Village Council shall elect one of its members to serve as Mayor and
another as Vice-Mayor.
(1995 Code, § 38.031)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor, see Charter §
2.06
   Vice-Mayor, see Charter §
2.07
§ 38.032   CLERK OF THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Village Council shall appoint a Clerk who shall perform such duties as
prescribed by the charter or by general law in ordinance. He or she shall serve
at the pleasure of the Village Council and as secretary to the Mayor.
(1995 Code, § 38.032)
Cross-reference:
   Clerk of Council, see Charter §
2.04
Part 4. MEETINGS
§ 38.040   REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Village Council shall be held in the Village Council
chamber commencing at 7:30 p.m. on the second and fourth Monday of each month.
Provided, however, that regular meetings of Village Council may be held
virtually whenever it would be in the best interests of the village to do so.
The Mayor, after consulting with the Vice-Mayor, shall make such determination.
If the Mayor determines that a regular meeting will be held virtually, the
Clerk of Council shall immediately provide notice of the same to all Council
members. If a legal holiday occurs on a day of a regularly scheduled meeting,
then the Village Council shall meet the succeeding Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. The
date and time of regular meetings may be changed by a motion passed by a
majority vote.
(1995 Code, § 38.040) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-1, passed 4-25-2022)
§ 38.041   SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the
Village Council members.
   (B)   Every Village Council member shall be given 24 hours notice of such
special meeting.
   (C)   The notice for the special meeting shall state the time, date,
location and subjects to be considered at such special meeting.
   (D)   No other subjects shall be discussed except upon the approval of a
majority of the Village Council.
   (E)   Notice of such special meeting shall be given to the media and to the
public pursuant to §
38.016.
   (F)   Special meetings of Village Council may be held virtually whenever it
would be in the best interests of the village to do so. The Mayor, after
consulting with the Vice-Mayor, shall make such determination. If the Mayor
determines that a special meeting will be held virtually, the Clerk of Council
shall immediately provide notice of the same to all Council members.
(1995 Code, § 38.041) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-2, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2022-O-1,
passed 4-25-2022)
§ 38.042   ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Village Council may be adjourned until a later time, date
or location provided that no adjournment shall be for a longer period until the
next regular meeting.
(1995 Code, § 38.042)
Part 5. CHAIR
§ 38.050   CHAIR.
   The Mayor or, in the Mayor's absence, the Vice-Mayor, shall preside at the
Village Council meetings.
(1995 Code, § 38.050)
§ 38.051   TEMPORARY CHAIR.
   In case of the absence of the Mayor and Vice-Mayor, the Clerk shall call the
Village Council to order and call the roll of the members. If a quorum is
present, the Village Council shall select, by a majority vote, a Chair of the
meeting to act until the Mayor or Vice-Mayor appears.
(1995 Code, § 38.051)
§ 38.052   PRESERVATION OF ORDER.
   The Chair shall preserve order and decorum, prevent attacks on personalities
or impugning of member's motives and confine members in debate to the question
under discussion.
(1995 Code, § 38.052)
§ 38.053   APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF CHAIR.
   The Chair shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal. Upon
appeal, the Chair shall be sustained unless overruled by a majority vote of the
Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.053)
§ 38.054   QUESTIONS STATED.
   All questions shall be stated by the Chair with clarity.
(1995 Code, § 38.054)
§ 38.055   PRESIDING OFFICER LEAVING CHAIR.
   The presiding officer at a meeting may call any other member to take the
presiding officer's place in the chair but the substitution shall not extend
beyond adjournment.
(1995 Code, § 38.055)
§ 38.056   CLERK.
   The Clerk and other officers and employees of the Clerk of the Village
Council's office shall be under the control and direction of the Chair during
the Village Council and committee meetings.
(1995 Code, § 38.056)
§ 38.057   ADDRESSING CHAIR.
   Every member speaking to a question or making a motion shall address the
Chair as “Mr. President” or “Madam President.” The Chair shall thereupon state
the name of the member entitled to the floor. Members addressing the Village
Council shall confine themselves to the question under debate.
(1995 Code, § 38.057)
Part 6. MEMBERS
§ 38.065   DUTY TO VOTE.
   Every member present shall vote on all questions unless excused by a
majority vote of the Village Council; except that no member shall vote on any
question in which he or she is financially interested or which in any way
directly involves the Village Council member's personal or private rights. The
refusal of a member to vote without an excuse from the Village Council is
deemed an acquiescence in the action taken by the majority voting. Provided,
however, that any member may affirmatively state when called upon to vote that
he or she “abstains” and the abstention shall not be deemed an acquiescence in
the action taken by the majority voting. Any member exercising the foregoing
right to abstain shall not be required to state the reason therefore; however,
he or she may state the reason for their abstention in which case the reason
shall be duly recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
(1995 Code, § 38.065) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-15, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 38.066   RIGHT TO FLOOR.
   (A)   When any member addresses the Village Council, he or she shall
respectfully address the presiding officer and, when recognized by the Chair,
shall confine discussion to the question under debate, avoid personalities and
refrain from impugning the motives of any other member's argument or vote.
   (B)   When two or more members ask recognition at the same time, the
presiding officer shall name the member who is first to speak. The exercise of
such discretion by the presiding officer is not subject to appeal.
(1995 Code, § 38.066)
§ 38.067   LIMITATION OF DEBATE.
   No member shall be allowed to speak more than once upon any one subject
until every other member choosing to speak thereon shall have spoken.
(1995 Code, § 38.067)
§ 38.068   SEPARATION OF QUESTION.
   Where a question under consideration covers two or more points which are
separable, the question shall be separated upon the demand of any member.
(1995 Code, § 38.068)
§ 38.069   ROLL CALL VOTE.
   (A)   When a roll call vote is required, the Clerk shall call the roll and
each member as his or her name is called shall answer in the affirmative or
negative unless excused or excepted from voting. Silence, when the member is
present and entitled to vote, will be recorded as a “yea” vote.
   (B)   It shall not be in order for members to explain their votes during the
call of the roll.
(1995 Code, § 38.069)
§ 38.070   TIE VOTE.
   On a tie vote, the matter is lost.
(1995 Code, § 38.070)
§ 38.071   CHANGE OF VOTE.
   A member has the right to change his or her vote up to the time the next
item of business is commenced. After such time, no member of the Village
Council shall be permitted to change his or her vote as recorded without
permission of the Village Council. Permission may be given by general consent
if no member objects when the Chair inquires. If a member objects, the motion
may be made to grant permission, which motion is undebatable and shall carry by
a majority vote.
(1995 Code, § 38.071)
§ 38.072   PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   (A)   Any member may address the Village Council on a question of personal
privilege. It shall be limited to cases in which the member's integrity,
character or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
   (B)   The member shall not use such privilege to discuss a question or issue
and it shall not consume more than five minutes of time unless extended by
consent of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.072)
§ 38.073   DISSENTS AND PROTESTS.
   Any member shall have the right to express dissent from or protest against
any ordinance or resolution of the Village Council and have the reason therefor
entered upon the journal. Such dissent or protest must be filed in writing and
presented to the Village Council not later than the end of the next regular
meeting following the date of passage of the ordinance or resolution.
(1995 Code, § 38.073)
§ 38.074   EXCUSAL FROM ATTENDANCE.
   Any member desiring to be excused from attendance at a Village Council
meeting shall obtain such permission from a majority of the Village Council.
Such permission may be obtained at the meeting from which the member desires to
be excused or the immediately following Village Council meeting. Provided,
however, that the member desiring to be excused shall not vote on the matter.
If any member fails to attend three meetings of the Village Council without the
excuse of the Village Council, such member is subject to removal pursuant to
Charter §
2.10.
(1995 Code, § 38.074) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-31, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 38.075   EXCUSAL DURING MEETING.
   Any member desiring to be excused while the Village Council is in session
shall obtain such permission from the presiding officer.
(1995 Code, § 38.075)
§ 38.076 NON-DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Members of Council shall not disclose confidential information concerning
the Village to the public or others, and shall only use confidential
information concerning the Village in a manner consistent with their elected
office.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 38.077 ALLOWANCE FOR CONFERENCES AND TRAINING.
   (A)   The total amount appropriated for Council's travel and training budget
for a fiscal year shall be equally divided among all Council Members and the
Clerk of Council. Provided, however, a larger percentage shall be allocated to
new members of Council and a new Clerk of Council. A new Council member shall
mean any Council member serving their first term including those that
previously held a seat on Council provided there was a break in service. A new
Clerk of Council shall mean any individual not previously employed as a Clerk
of Council of the Village of Lincoln Heights or another political subdivision
for twelve months or longer.
   (B)   As an illustration of the application of Subsection (A), if Council
consists of two new Council members and a new Clerk of Council, then 15% of the
Council's travel and training budget shall be allocated to each one of those
individuals for a total of 45%. The other five Council members shall be
allocated 11% for a total of 55%.
   (C)   Members of Council that require Village funds to pay for meals,
travel, lodging, registration fees and the like shall submit a written
requisition to the Clerk of Council at least two weeks prior to the date of the
event. The requisition shall be forwarded to the Mayor who shall forthwith
confirm the availability of funds based on that Council member's allocation and
usage, as well as the funds remaining in Council's travel and training budget.
Provided there are allocated funds available for the Council member's
requisition, the Mayor shall forthwith sign the requisition and forward it to
the Manager for signature and submission to the Finance Department.
   (D)   Members of Council that use Village funds to pay for travel or other
expenses in connection with legislative training and conferences shall submit a
written report to all Council members within two (2) weeks of the date of said
training or conference. The Clerk of Council shall place the written report on
the regular agenda for the next Council meeting for review and discussion.
(Ord. 2012-O-1, passed 2-3-2012; Am. Ord. 2010-O-8, passed 2-3-2012)
Part 7. CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
§ 38.085   ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Village Council shall transact business in the following order at
all regular meetings. The order may be altered at special meetings and at any
other meetings by consent of a majority of the Village Council.
      (1)   Roll call.
      (2)   Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.
      (3)   Filing of journal.
      (4)   Announcements.
      (5)   Special orders.
      (6)   Presentations by members of the Village Council.
      (7)   Consent agenda.
      (8)   Regular agenda.
      (9)   Supplemental agenda.
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   After the presentations by members of the Village Council, the
business of all regular meetings shall commence at the point where the order of
business at the preceding meeting was interrupted by adjournment. At special
meetings called for purposes specifically named, the purpose named in the call
shall have precedence.
(1995 Code, § 38.085) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-3, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 38.086   CALL TO ORDER.
   At the time appointed for the Village Council to meet the presiding officer
shall take the chair and immediately call the meeting to order.
(1995 Code, § 38.086)
§ 38.087   ROLL CALL.
   (A)   Before proceeding with the business of the Village Council, the Clerk
shall call the roll, determine the presence of a quorum and enter in the
minutes the members present, absent and excused.
   (B)   To be recorded as present, a member of the Village Council shall be in
the Village Council chamber at the time of roll call.
(1995 Code, § 38.087)
§ 38.088   QUORUM.
   Five members elected to the Village Council shall constitute a quorum and a
majority of the elected members shall be necessary for the transaction of
business. If a quorum is not present those in attendance may adjourn by a
majority vote until a later time or date or may recess and direct the Clerk to
procure the attendance of absent members. When a quorum is present, a majority
vote of those members shall be sufficient to transact all business except the
enactment of ordinances and as a larger number is required by law or the rules
of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.088)
§ 38.089   FILING OF THE JOURNAL.
   At each meeting the journal of the preceding meeting shall be filed as
prepared by the Clerk if there is no objection.
(1995 Code, § 38.089)
§ 38.090   PRESENTATIONS BY MEMBER; BY LEAVES.
   (A)   Members may present items not appearing on the calendar (also known as
the Agenda) by leave of the Village Council with a majority voting in favor of
the presentation. Any member seeking to present items not appearing on the
calendar must submit a written request to present items not appearing on the
calendar to the Clerk of Council on or before 12:00 p.m. of the business day
immediately preceding the Council meeting.
   (B)   The written request shall be contained on a form prescribed by the
Clerk of Council and shall clearly state the following:
      (1)   The subject matter of the presentation;
      (2)   The purpose of the presentation;
      (3)   The particular points that will be made during the presentation;
and
      (4)   The goal(s) of the presentation.
   (C)   The Clerk of Council shall include a copy of the written request in
the packet of information distributed to Council members in advance of the
Council meeting. Any written request that is not timely submitted to the
Clerk’s office shall be held by the Clerk of Council until the next Council
meeting and distributed to Council members in advance of the next Council
meeting.
   (D)   Any presentation granted by leave of Council that engages in personal
attacks on other Council members or Village officials, employees or staff
members is strictly prohibited. Each Council member will be allowed to respond
to the presentation in alphabetical order.
(1995 Code, § 38.090) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-28, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-O-
19, passed 12-28-2009)
§ 38.091   SPECIAL ORDERS.
   (A)   A special order is a question which is set for a certain time and may
interrupt any pending question except one relating to adjournment or recess, a
question of privilege or an earlier set special order. To make any subject a
special order shall require the consent of a majority of the Village Council.
   (B)   Special orders may be taken up to any time after the roll call and
presentation by members of the Village Council. Special orders for a particular
day shall hold good for succeeding days until disposed of.
(1995 Code, § 38.091)
§ 38.092   PRINTED CALENDAR.
   (A)   The Clerk shall prepare a printed calendar for each regular meeting,
which shall be known as the agenda. The printed calendar shall include a
regular agenda and a consent agenda. The Clerk shall deliver or cause to be
delivered to each Village Council member not later than 6:00 p.m. on the
Wednesday preceding the regular meeting of the Village Council, a packet
containing the calendar and all materials relevant thereto. Copies of the
printed calendar shall be available to the public in the office of the Clerk at
3:00 p.m. on Wednesday preceding the regular meeting of the Village Council.
The deadline for items appearing on the printed calendar shall be 11:00 a.m. on
the Wednesday preceding the regular meeting of the Village Council. Items
referred from committee meetings held after such deadline shall be included on
a supplemental calendar.
   (B)   Items shall appear on the printed calendar in substantially the
following order:
      (1)   Reports and communications from the Mayor, members of the Village
Council, Village Manager, village boards and commissions and village officers.
      (2)   Reports of standing committees in the following order:
         (a)   Finance Committee;
         (b)   Law Committee;
         (c)   Public Safety Committee;
         (d)   Economic Development Committee; and
         (e)   Recreation Committee.
      (3)   Consent agenda items.
      (4)   Second reading of ordinances held from previous meeting.
      (5)   Third reading of ordinances held from previous meeting.
      (6)   Other matters received by the Clerk.
      (7)   Anonymous communications shall not be placed on the agenda or
introduced into the Village Council.
   (C)   All items on the consent agenda shall be read as one, and the question
of adoption and passage of all said items shall be by a single motion. The
motion shall be made as follows: "Is there a motion to approve the various
items on the consent agenda?" In the event that Council determines that any
items on the consent agenda should be passed on an emergency basis, then the
question of adoption and passage of all said items as an emergency measure
shall be by a single motion. The motion shall be made as follows: "Is there a
motion to adopt the emergency clause set forth in the relevant sections of the
legislation on the consent agenda?"
(1995 Code, § 38.092) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-4, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 38.093   SUPPLEMENTAL CALENDAR.
   The supplemental calendar shall contain items and reports from the
administration and standing committees received by the Clerk on Thursday after
the printed calendar deadline on Wednesday. It shall be ready for distribution
at 12:00 noon on Friday preceding the regular meeting of the Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.093) (Am. Ord. 96-O-6, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 38.094   COUNCIL REFERRALS.
   Items on the printed and supplemental calendars which have not been
previously referred to committee shall be referred to the committee indicated
on the calendar or by the Mayor and, as required by the Charter or law, to the
Planning Commission. The Village Council may by motion direct the referral to a
different or additional standing committee. An item may be considered
immediately without referral upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the
Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.094)
§ 38.095   REFERRALS OF STATE AND FEDERAL JOINT PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All proposals for projects which contemplate cooperation with, or
financial participation by, the state or federal government shall be
transmitted to the Village Council by the Village Manager. If a village board
or commission desires to propose such a project, the proposal shall be filed
with the Village Manager.
   (B)   All proposals shall be in approved form and accompanied by plans and
specifications conforming to the requirements of the respective state or
federal government.
   (C)   The Village Council shall refer all proposals to the Finance Committee
and to any other appropriate committee. The committees shall report their
recommendations to the Village Council. If the Village Council approves the
proposal, it shall authorize the Village Manager to make application to the
proper governmental authority.
(1995 Code, § 38.095)
Part 8. MOTIONS
§ 38.105   MOTIONS; GENERAL.
   All motions shall require a majority vote of the Village Council for
adoption except as otherwise provided in these rules. When a motion is made, it
shall be stated by the Chair before debate. A member may withdraw a motion at
any time before passage.
(1995 Code, § 38.105)
§ 38.106   MOTIONS; NEW SUBJECT.
   All motions which bring a new subject before the Village Council shall be in
writing and shall be referred to committee for report prior to adoption. Such
motions may be presented either in the form of a motion or a resolution.
(1995 Code, § 38.106)
§ 38.107   PROCEDURAL MOTION PRIOR TO DEBATE; TO DEFER CONSIDERATION.
   A member may move for deferral of consideration of action on any subject
prior to debate on the subject.
(1995 Code, § 38.107)
§ 38.108   PROCEDURAL MOTION DURING DEBATE.
   When a motion is before the Village Council, only the following procedural
motions shall be entertained with precedence in the order listed:
   (A)   Motion to lay question on table. Approval of a motion to lay the
question on the table temporarily lays the question aside so that it may be
taken up when it is in order or when no other question is before the Village
Council. No amendments or debate of the subject may be considered. If the
motion prevails, all amendments and documents accompanying the question shall
adhere to the item. The consideration of the question may be resumed only upon
motion of a member voting with the prevailing and with the consent of a
majority of the Village Council.
   (B)   Motion for the previous question. Approval of a motion for the
previous question to close debate shall be by at least five votes of the
members. Adoption of a motion for the previous question shall close debate and
the Village Council shall immediately proceed to a vote on the pending
question.
   (C)   Motion to postpone to a time certain or make special order. Approval
of a motion to postpone to a time certain defers consideration of a question to
another day or to a certain hour when, after pending business is disposed of,
it will have the right of consideration over all questions except a specific
order or reconsideration. It may be amended as to time by a vote of a majority
of the Village Council. Approval of a motion to make an item a special order
defers consideration to a certain hour and will allow the matter to interrupt
pending business. It may be adopted or be amended as to time by a majority of
the Village Council.
   (D)   Motion to refer. Approval of a motion to refer may commit or recommit
any pending question to a specific standing committee or may refer the matter
to a special committee, the Village Manager, a board or commission or a
department director for investigation, report or action. The response to such
referral shall be made to the Village Council or as the Village Council
otherwise directs.
   (E)   Motion to amend or fill blank. A motion to amend may only be amended
once. An amendment once rejected may not be moved again substantially in the
same form. A motion to fill a blank shall be made prior to voting on a
resolution or ordinance.
   (F)   Motion to postpone indefinitely. Approval of a motion to postpone
indefinitely rejects the question without a direct vote. If it is carried, the
principal question shall be declared last. An affirmative vote may be
reconsidered, a negative vote may not. If the motion to postpone indefinitely
carries and is not reconsidered, the question cannot be brought up again during
that the Village Council meeting.
(1995 Code, § 38.108)
§ 38.109   MOTION TO RECONSIDER.
   A motion to reconsider a proposal that has been acted upon favorably must be
made before adjournment of the meeting of the Village Council at which the vote
was taken. A motion to reconsider any other action taken by the Village Council
may be made at any time at any meeting held within ten days after the vote of
the Village Council thereon. A majority of the Village Council shall be
sufficient for reconsideration of a vote. If a motion to reconsider is lost, it
shall not again be entertained.
(1995 Code, § 38.109) (Am. Ord. 2012-O-15, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 38.110   MOTION TO TAKE RECESS.
   The Village Council may move to take a recess to a specified time. The
motion is debatable and amendable. At the appointed time the meeting shall be
called to order and business will proceed the same as if no recess had been
taken.
(1995 Code, § 38.110)
§ 38.111   MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   (A)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as follows:
      (1)   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
      (2)   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
      (3)   When the previous question has been ordered; or
      (4)   While a vote is being taken.
   (B)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the
meeting is adjourned.
(1995 Code, § 38.111)
Part 9. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 38.120   ORDINANCES DRAFTED.
   (A)   Ordinances shall be drawn by the Village Solicitor at the request of
any member of the Village Council, a Village Council Committee, or the Village
Manager. All such legislation shall indicate in the top left corner the
individual requesting the legislation. Said individual shall also present the
legislation to the relevant standing committee or, at such individual’s option,
to Council of the Whole for consideration by all of Council.
   (B)   All legislative matters shall be drafted as ordinances except when
required by state law to be in the form of a resolution in which case all
formalities of an ordinance shall be followed in the passage of the resolution.
No ordinance shall contain more than one subject which shall be clearly
expressed in its title, and no ordinance shall be revived or amended unless the
new ordinance contains the entire ordinance revived, or the section or sections
amended and the section or sections so amended shall be repealed.
(1995 Code, § 38.120) (Am. Ord. 2011-O-4, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 38.121   READING OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances must be fully and distinctly read on three different days unless
five members of the Village Council dispense with the rule. First reading of an
ordinance shall be in its entirety unless the Village Council by a majority
vote deems otherwise. Second and third readings of an ordinance shall be by
title. If the rule has not been suspended, the first reading of the ordinance
shall be for information. After the second reading, the question shall be
engrossed and not subject to further amendment, except that the order of
engrossment may be reconsidered by a majority vote of the Village Council. The
third reading shall be for adoption of the ordinance by a roll call vote.
(1995 Code, § 38.121)
§ 38.122   SUSPENSION OF THREE READINGS.
   (A)   Upon motion affirmatively passed by five members of the Village
Council, the rule that an ordinance must be fully and distinctly read on three
different days may be suspended at any time after the first reading of the
ordinance.
   (B)   The title of the ordinance shall be read once for information, the
motion for suspension of the rule shall be made and, if the motion is acted
upon favorably, the ordinance shall be subject immediately to amendment and
passage. If the motion does not carry, the ordinance shall be held for the next
meeting for the second reading. A motion to suspend the rule may be made after
the second reading and, if acted upon favorably the ordinance shall be subject
immediately to passage.
(1995 Code, § 38.122)
§ 38.123   AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to ordinances made on the floor of the Village Council
after the first reading shall be indicated by the Clerk on the original
ordinance.
   (B)   When a resolution or ordinance is referred to a committee, it may be
reported back with a recommended substitute for the legislation. The Chair
shall state the question on the substitute recommended by the committee. The
Clerk shall note on the document that it is substitute legislation. The
original legislation may be placed on the calendar for indefinite postponement.
(1995 Code, § 38.123)
§ 38.124   IMPROPER AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment is not in order which is not germane to the question to be
amended or is identical to a question previously decided during that the
Village Council meeting. No independent new question may be introduced under
cover of an amendment. An amendment may, however, conflict with the spirit of
the original legislation and still be in order.
(1995 Code, § 38.124)
§ 38.125   ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances shall require for passage the concurrence of no fewer
than a majority of the members of the Village Council.
   (B)   A vote of five members of the Village Council is necessary:
      (1)   To appropriate property when notice to the owner is only by
publication because the owner cannot be found;
      (2)   To pass an emergency measure;
      (3)   To submit to the electorate a proposal to amend the Charter; or
      (4)   To overrule the failure of the Planning Commission to approve an
amendment of the Zoning Code or of the zoning map set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances or location of a public improvement.
(1995 Code, § 38.125)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances, see Charter §
2.11(d)
Statutory reference:
   Proceedings on passage of appropriation resolution, see Ohio R.C. § 719.05
   Amending charter, Ohio Constitution, Art. XVIII, Sec. 9
§ 38.126   EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In order to take immediate effect an emergency ordinance must receive an
affirmative vote of five members of the Village Council on the ordinance as
well as five affirmative votes on the emergency clause of such ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 38.126)
§ 38.127   PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance shall be published once within 15 days after its passage in
a newspaper of general circulation in the village. In the publication of every
ordinance or resolution relating to improvements, the advertisement shall
contain simply a statement of the title, number and the date of the ordinance
or resolution, and a reference to a copy of the ordinance or solution, which
shall be on file in the office of the Clerk of the Village Council. All
legislation must be posted for at least 14 days in five conspicuous places in
the municipality fixed by ordinance of the Village Council and shall be
available for public inspection in the office of Clerk of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.127)
§ 38.128   LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTIONS.
   Legislative matters that are required by the Constitution or state law to be
in resolution form shall be adopted and published in the same manner as
ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 38.128)
§ 38.129   RESOLUTIONS.
   Resolutions shall be drawn by the Director of Legal Services at the request
of any member of the Village Council, a the Village Council committee, the
Village Manager, a board or commission, or village officer.
(1995 Code, § 38.129)
§ 38.130   ADOPTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   All resolutions except legislative resolutions shall be adopted by an
affirmative vote of a majority of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.130)
Part 10. COMMITTEES
§ 38.140   APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   The standing committee and their Chairs and Vice-Chairs shall be appointed
by a vote of a majority of the members elected to the Village Council. All
other committees shall be appointed by the Mayor, unless the Village Council
otherwise directed.
(1995 Code, § 38.140)
§ 38.141   STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The standing committees of the Village Council shall be:
      (1)   Economic Development Committee;
      (2)   Finance Committee;
      (3)   Law and Safety Services Committee; and
      (4)   Recreation Committee.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed for a term of two years and
composed of three or five members. All matters pending in the committees at the
end of the two-year term shall be turned over to the successor committee.
   (C)   Any member desiring to be excused from attendance at a Standing
Committee meeting shall obtain such permission from the Village Council. If any
member fails to attend three regularly scheduled meetings of the Standing
Committee without the excuse of the Village Council, such member is subject to
removal from the Standing Committee upon the affirmative vote of five members
of Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.141) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-8, passed 4-27-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-O-1,
passed 1-1-2010; Am. Ord. 2024-O-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 38.142   SPECIAL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   A special committee of the Village Council may be appointed by the
Mayor, or a subcommittee of the Village Council may be appointed by a committee
Chair, for any special purpose and shall cease to exist upon final report to
the Village Council or the committee on the duty assigned.
   (B)   It may be discharged by a vote of a majority of the Village Council or
the committee appointing it.
(1995 Code, § 38.142)
§ 38.143   COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   (A)   Each committee shall meet regularly at the time and day specified by
the Chair of the committee. Special meetings shall be called by the Chair or
any two members of the committee upon 72 hours prior notice of the time and
place of the special meeting which shall be posted in the office of the Clerk
of the Village Council and in 5 conspicuous places in the village fixed by
ordinance of the Village Council. Meetings may be canceled by the Chair without
objection from a majority of the committee.
   (B)   A committee may set its own agenda. It shall consider all matters
referred to it by the Village Council and may, of its own initiative, consider
any matter concerning the village which falls within the area of responsibility
of the committee. A committee may initiate legislation within its area of
responsibility for submission to the Village Council and such legislation when
accompanied by a committee report, may be acted upon immediately and need not
be referred to another committee unless so directed by the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 38.143) (Ord. 2008-O-27, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 38.144   SECRETARY TO COMMITTEES.
   The Clerk or a Deputy Clerk shall act as secretary to each committee and
keep a record of attendance and business transacted at committee meetings. Such
record shall be in the form of a journal of proceedings which shall be kept by
the Clerk of the Village Council and shall be open to public inspection at all
reasonable times. The journal of proceedings for a Standing Committee regarding
regularly scheduled meetings shall be prepared and delivered to the applicable
Standing Committee for review five business days following such regular
meeting. The journal of proceedings of the Standing Committee regarding special
or emergency meetings shall be prepared and delivered to the applicable
Standing Committee for review ten business days following such special or
emergency meeting.
(1995 Code, § 38.144) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-4, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 38.145   COMMITTEE QUORUM.
   (A)   The presence of two members of a three member committee shall
constitute a quorum, and the presence of three members of a five member
Committee shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   If a quorum is not present at a special or regularly scheduled
meeting, the Chair of the committee shall report to Council that there was no
quorum at its regularly scheduled meeting or that a scheduled meeting was not
held. If legislative action be required on any matter referred to the Committee
before the Committee's next scheduled meeting, Council may relieve the
Committee from further consideration of the matter.
(1995 Code, § 38.145) (Am. Res. 95-R-77, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 38.146   REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE.
   Each committee shall investigate and report on all items on the printed and
supplemented calendars and “by-leaves” referred to it and may refer such items
to the Village Manager, village board or commission or department director for
report to the committee.
(1995 Code, § 38.146)
§ 38.147   COMMITTEE REPORTS.
   (A)   In the event a committee to which a matter has been referred with
instructions to report at a specific time is not read to report at such time,
the matter shall be considered as though reported back without recommendation.
   (B)   Other than reports of the committee of the whole, the Clerk shall
transmit to the Village Council in writing the reports of committees containing
the recommended disposition of matters referred to them. Written indication in
the printed and supplemented calendars as to a committee recommendation shall
satisfy the requirement that reports of committees be transmitted in writing to
the Village Council.
   (C)   All committee reports to the Village Council shall be in writing and
signed by the members of the committee.
(1995 Code, § 38.147)
§ 38.148   RELIEVING COMMITTEE FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION.
   Upon motion the Village Council may by a majority vote relieve a committee
of further consideration of a matter referred to it and order the matter placed
on the calendar for immediate consideration.
(1995 Code, § 38.148)
§ 38.149   COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
   When the Village Council resolves itself into the Committee of the Whole,
the Mayor or such other member of the Village Council as Council may appoint
shall preside. The rules of the Village Council shall govern the Committee of
the Whole except for the following.
   (A)   The previous question may not be moved.
   (B)   The “yeas” and “nays” shall not be recorded.
   (C)   Four members elected to the Village Council shall constitute a quorum.
(1995 Code, § 38.149) (Am. Ord. 2011-O-6, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 38.150   PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Village Council or any committee may hold a public hearing on any matter
pending before the committee or on any matter of importance to the village
within the area of responsibility of the committee.
(1995 Code, § 38.150)
CHAPTER 39: TAXATION AND FINANCE; FUNDS
Section
Admissions Tax
   
39.01   Definition
   
39.02   Admission tax levied
   
39.03   Admissions exempt from tax
   
39.04   Administration
   
39.05   License; application
   
39.06   Refunds; Admissions Tax Rotary Fund
   
39.07   Lien for unpaid taxes
   
39.08   Additional assessment
   
39.09   Estimated assessment
   
39.10   Estimated additional assessment
   
39.11   When taxes are due and payable
   
39.12   Notices authorized
   
39.13   Refunds; application
   
39.14   Moneys credited to general fund
Income Tax Effective Through December 31, 2015
   
39.20   Purpose
   
39.21   Definitions
   
39.22   Imposition of tax
   
39.23   Effective period
   
39.24   Return and payment
   
39.25   Collection at source
   
39.26   Declaration
   
39.27   Appointment and duties of Tax Administrator
   
39.28   Investigative power of Administrator
   
39.29   Interest and penalties
   
39.30   Collection and refund
   
39.31   Board of Review
   
39.32   Allocation of funds
   
39.33   Credit for tax paid to another municipality
   
39.34   Income tax credit
   
39.35   Information required of landlord
   
39.36   Exclusions or exemptions to the payment of income tax
Funds
   
39.45   Mayor's Discretionary Fund
   
39.46   Law Enforcement Trust Fund
   
39.47   Mandatory Drug Fine Trust Fund
   
39.48   Special account for funds received from lease of village property
   
39.49   Debt service fund
Village Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
39.60   Motor vehicle license tax
Income Tax Effective Beginning January 1, 2016
   
39.71   Authority to levy tax; purpose of tax
   
39.72   Definitions
   
39.73   Imposition of tax
   
39.74   Collection at source
   
39.75   Annual return; filing
   
39.76   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities
   
39.77   Estimated taxes
   
39.78   Rounding of amounts
   
39.79   Requests for refunds
   
39.80   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund
   
39.81   Amended returns
   
39.82   Limitations
   
39.83   Audits
   
39.84   Service of assessment.
   
39.85   Administration of claims
   
39.86   Tax information confidential
   
39.87   Fraud
   
39.88   Interest and penalties
   
39.89   Authority of Tax Administrator; verification of information
   
39.90   Request for opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
39.91   Tax Board of Review
   
39.92   Authority to create rules and regulations
   
39.93   Rental and leased property
   
39.94   Savings clause
   
39.95   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
39.96   Election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95
 
   
39.98   Violations; penalties
   
39.99   Penalty
ADMISSIONS TAX
§ 39.01   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMISSION. Seats, chairs, tables, and benches, reserved or otherwise, and
other similar accommodations, and charges made therefor. Amounts received for
admission shall be deemed to exclude any federal taxes paid or received in
respect of the admission.
(1995 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.02   ADMISSION TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing revenue to defray a portion of current
expenses and other expenditures of the village, there is levied:
      (1)   A tax of 3% on the amounts received for admission to any place,
including admission by season ticket or subscription;
      (2)   A tax of 3% on the excess of amounts received for tickets or cards
of admission to theaters, operas, and other places of amusement, sold at news
stands, hotels, and places other than the ticket offices of the theaters,
operas, or other places of amusement, over and above the amounts representing
the established price therefor at the ticket offices; such tax to be returned
and paid in the manner and subject to the interest provided in §
39.03, by the person selling tickets;
      (3)   A tax of 3% on the amount received for admission to any public
performance for profit at any roof garden, cabaret, or other similar
entertainment in case the charge for admission is in the form of a service
charge, or cover charge, or a similar charge in whatsoever form, provided that
if the charge is in the form of a fixed minimum service charge to the admittee,
the tax shall be computed on 1/3 of the fixed minimum service charge; and
      (4)   A tax of 3% on the amount received as annual membership dues by
every club or organization maintaining a golf course, and a tax of 3% on green
fees collected by golf courses, either under club or private ownership.
   (B)   In the case of persons (except bona fide employees, municipal officers
on official business, and children under the age for which a charge is
regularly made) admitted free or at reduced rates to any place at a time when
and under circumstances under which an admission charge is made to other
persons, an equivalent tax shall be collected based on the price so charged to
the other persons for the same or similar accommodations, to be paid by the
person so admitted.
(1995 Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.03   ADMISSIONS EXEMPT FROM TAX.
   (A)   Exemptions. No tax shall be levied under this subchapter with respect
to:
      (1)   Any admissions, all the proceeds of which inure:
         (a)   Exclusively to the benefit of religious, educational, or
charitable institutions, societies or organizations for the prevention of
cruelty to children or animals or societies or organizations conducted for the
sole purpose of maintaining symphony orchestras and receiving substantial
support from voluntary contributions, if no part of the net earnings thereof
inure to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual;
         (b)   Exclusively to the benefit of persons in the military or naval
forces of the United States, or of national guard organizations, reserve
officers associations or organizations, posts or organizations of war veterans,
or auxiliary units or societies of any such posts or organizations, if such
posts, organizations, units or societies are organized in the State of Ohio,
and if no part of their net earnings inure to the benefit of any private
stockholder or individual; or
         (c)   Exclusively to the benefit of members of the Police or Fire
Department of any Hamilton County municipal corporation, or the dependents or
heirs of the members.
      (2)   The exemption from tax provided by this section shall not be
allowed in case of admissions to wrestling matches, prize fights or boxing,
sparring, or other pugilistic matches or exhibitions nor in the case of
admissions to any athletic game or exhibition the proceeds of which inure
wholly or partly to the benefit of any high school, academy, preparatory, or
other school, wherein the admission price is $0.76 or more, or wholly or partly
to the benefit of any college or university.
   (B)   Price to be marked on ticket. The price, exclusive of any federal tax
to be paid by the person paying for admission, at which every admission ticket
or card is sold shall be conspicuously and indelibly printed, stamped, or
written on the face or back of that part of the ticket which is to be taken up
by the management of the theater, opera, or other place of amusement, together
with the name of the vendor if sold other than at a ticket office of the place
of amusement. Whoever sells an admission ticket or card on which the name of
the vendor and price is not so printed, stamped, or written thereon, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined not
more than $100.
   (C)   Monthly reports, contents, and payment of tax. Every person receiving
any payments for admission, dues or fees, taxable under this chapter, shall on
or before day 20 of each calendar month make a return in duplicate under oath
to the Village Clerk in such form as the Village Clerk may prescribe, showing
the number of taxable admissions issued or disposed of or the amount of taxable
dues or fees collected during the preceding calendar month, the amount of tax
imposed on the same, and other facts and information as the Village Clerk may
require in the form of returns prescribed by him or her; one copy of the return
shall be for the use of the Village Clerk and the other shall be filed by the
Village Clerk in his or her office in the village.
   (D)   Confidentiality of returns. All such returns shall be held
confidential by the Village Clerk and shall not be available for inspection
unless ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction save that the Village Clerk
may furnish a copy to the Internal Revenue Department.
   (E)   Payment. Each person making a return shall at the time of making the
same pay the amount of taxes shown thereby to the Village Clerk. The payments
shall be paid into the village treasury. The Village Clerk may adopt uniform
rules and regulations not inconsistent with this section governing the method
of making returns and payments.
   (F)   Interest. If the tax imposed by this subchapter is not paid when due,
there shall be added as a part of the tax interest at the rate of 1% a month
from the time when the tax became due until paid.
(1995 Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have power to adopt and promulgate such rules
and regulations as the Village Clerk may deem necessary to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each person required by this subchapter to collect and pay, or to pay
the taxes imposed shall keep records of receipts, issuance of complimentary
tickets, and otherwise, together with ticket stubs, and other pertinent
documents, in the form as the Village Clerk may by regulation require. The
records and other documents shall be open at any time during business hours to
the inspection of the Village Clerk, and shall be preserved for a period of
three years, unless the Village Clerk shall in writing consent to their
destruction within that period, or in writing require that they be kept longer.
The Village Clerk may require any person required by this chapter to collect
and pay or to pay the tax imposed, to file with him or her a bond, subject to
the approval of the Law Director, with security to the approval of the Village
Clerk, and in the amount as the Village Clerk may fix, conditioned for the
collection and payment, or the payment of any taxes due or which may become due
from that person. Bond, when approved by the Village Clerk shall be deposited
in his or her office, in lieu of the bond, securities approved by the Village
Clerk may be deposited with him or her and shall be kept by him or her as
security for the payment of the tax, interest, or penalty, or both. The Village
Clerk may sell any securities so deposited with him or her at public or private
sale without notice to the depositor thereof, if it becomes necessary so to do
in order to recover the amount of the tax, interest, or penalty, or both due or
unpaid. On any such sale, the surplus, if any, above the amounts so due and
unpaid, shall be returned to the depositor of the securities.
   (C)   The Village Clerk may by regulations permit any person making a refund
of any payment on which a tax is collected under this subchapter to repay
therewith the amount of the tax collected on the payment, and provide for the
crediting of the amount so repaid against amounts included in any subsequent
return.
(1995 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.05   LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to continue to conduct or
thereafter to begin to conduct any form of amusement at any permanent or
temporary place of amusement within the village without a license therefor, as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Every person desiring to continue to conduct or hereafter to begin to
conduct any such amusement at any permanent or temporary place of amusement or
any itinerant form of amusement within this village, shall file an application
for a permanent, temporary, or itinerant form of amusement license or licenses,
as the case may be, with the Village Clerk. Every application for license shall
be made on a form prescribed, prepared, and furnished by the Village Clerk, and
shall set forth the name under which the applicant conducts or intends to
conduct an amusement whether the applicant conducts or intends to conduct a
permanent or temporary form of amusement, the location of the permanent or
temporary place of amusement, and such other information as the Village Clerk
may require. If the applicant has or intends to have more than one place of
amusement within the village, the application shall state the location of each
place of amusement, and in the case of itinerant form of amusement, the date
and length of time such amusement is to be conducted at each place. In the case
of an application for a license for a temporary place of amusement, the
application shall state the name and address of the owner, or lessee, or
custodian of the premises on which such amusement is to be conducted, and any
other information prescribed by the Village Clerk for purposes of
identification. The application shall be signed and verified by oath or
affirmation by the person conducting the amusement if a natural person, or in
the case of an association, by a member or partner thereof or in case of a
corporation by an executive officer thereof or some person specifically
authorized by the corporation to sign the application, to which shall be
attached the written evidence of his or her authority. At the time of making an
application the applicant shall pay the Village Clerk a fee of $1 for each
license.
   (C)   On approval of the application and the payment of any license fee or
fees herein required, the Village Clerk shall grant and issue to each
applicant, unless withheld for a cause, a permanent, temporary, or itinerant
amusement license for each place of amusement within this village set forth in
his or her application. An amusement license shall be valid only for the person
in whose name it is issued and for the conduct of amusements at the place
designated therein; it shall not be assignable; it shall be conspicuously
displayed at the place for which issued during the period of ticket sale and
conduct of amusements. All licenses for permanent places of amusement shall be
for a period of one year following the date on which they are issued, unless
sooner surrendered by the licensee, or suspended or revoked for cause by the
Village Clerk. Licenses for temporary places of amusement or for forms of
itinerant amusement shall expire at the time specified therein. The holder of
an itinerant amusement license shall notify the Village Clerk promptly of any
change in the original contemplated itinerary, either as to date or time of the
conduct of the amusement at each place.
   (D)   Licenses issued for permanent places of amusement under the provisions
of this subchapter may be renewed annually on application made to the Village
Clerk and the payment of a renewal fee of $1.
   (E)   The Village Clerk may suspend or after hearing revoke an amusement
license whenever he or she finds that the holder thereof has failed to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations of the
Village Clerk prescribed, adopted, and promulgated under this subchapter. On
suspending or revoking any amusement license, the Village Clerk shall require
the holder thereof to surrender to him or her immediately all licenses or
duplicates thereof issued to the holder and the holder shall surrender promptly
all licenses to the Village Clerk as required. Whenever the Village Clerk
suspends an amusement license, he or she shall notify the holder immediately
and afford him or her a hearing, if no hearing has already been afforded and
one is desired. After the hearing the Village Clerk shall either rescind his or
her order of suspension or on good cause appearing therefor shall continue the
suspension or revoke the license.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, or custodian of the
premises on which an amusement is to be conducted, to lease or permit the same
to be used by any person who is not the owner of a license duly issued by the
Village Clerk hereunder. Any owner, lessee, or custodian who leases to or
permits the premises to be used for that purpose, to a person who is not the
owner of a license duly issued hereunder, shall be liable for the amount of
taxes levied under the provisions of this subchapter in connection with any
amusement so conducted on the premises, and the taxes shall be a lien on the
premises.
   (G)   When an exemption from the payment of the admission tax is granted by
the Village Clerk for a given amusement or series of amusements in accordance
with the provisions of §
39.03, the exemption shall be considered as the equivalent of the license
herein provided for. The exemption form as executed on behalf of the Village
Clerk shall be displayed in the same manner as is provided for the license.
(1995 Code, § 39.05) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
Penalty, see § 39.99
§ 39.06   REFUNDS; ADMISSIONS TAX ROTARY FUND.
   The Village Clerk shall refund any tax or license fee erroneously paid or to
the extent overpaid on license application or tax return or on assessment or
other demand of the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk on application of the
taxpayer or otherwise may determine the amount of any erroneous or overpayment
and certify that amount to the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance
shall thereupon draw his or her warrant for the certified amount on the Village
Clerk to the person entitled to the refund. For the purpose of paying refunds
the Village Clerk shall place $1,000 from taxes collected under this chapter in
a special fund which the Director of Finance is authorized and directed to
establish, numbered 7191, and to be known as the Admissions Tax Rotary Fund,
and thereafter as required by the depletion thereof he or she shall place to
the credit of the Rotary Fund a sum sufficient to make the total of the fund at
the time of each credit amount to $1,000.
(1995 Code, § 39.06) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.07   LIEN FOR UNPAID TAXES.
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be a lien on all of the
property of any person required to collect and pay or to pay the same. If he or
she shall sell out his or her business or shall quit business, that person
shall be required to make out the return provided for under this subchapter
within 30 days after the date of sale of the business, or retirement therefrom,
and his or her successor in business shall be required to withhold a sufficient
amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the taxes so collected and
unpaid, together with interest, if any, until the time as the former owner
shall produce a receipt from the Village Clerk showing that the taxes have been
paid, or a certificate that no taxes are due. If the purchaser of a business
shall fail to withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes so
collected shall be due and unpaid after the 30 days period allowed, he or she
shall be liable for the payment of the taxes collected and unpaid on account of
the operation of the business by the former owner, together with interest, as
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   The lien for unpaid taxes herein imposed shall not become effective
until the time as the Village Clerk shall certify to the Auditor of Hamilton
County the amount of taxes delinquent and the certification is placed on record
by the County Recorder in a book maintained for that purpose.
(1995 Code, § 39.07) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.08   ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT.
   If the Village Clerk is not satisfied with the return and payment of taxes
made by any person under the provisions of this chapter, he or she is
authorized and empowered to make an additional assessment of the tax due by the
taxpayer, based on the facts contained in the return or otherwise acquired.
Promptly after the date of additional assessment, the Village Clerk shall give
or send by mail a notice thereof to the person, together with written notice of
the time, when, and the place where, that person may be heard on a petition for
reassessment as hereinafter provided.
(1995 Code, § 39.08) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.09   ESTIMATED ASSESSMENT.
   If a person whose duty it is to collect and pay or to pay the taxes imposed
by this chapter shall neglect or refuse to file any return required by this
chapter, or having tendered a return shall neglect or refuse to pay the amount
of taxes imposed by this subchapter as shown by the return, the Village Clerk
shall make an estimated assessment of the probable amount of the taxes payable
by the delinquent, to which shall be added a penalty of 10% of the amount
assessed. The Village Clerk shall promptly thereafter give or send by mail
notice of the estimated assessment and penalty to the person against whom the
same shall have been made.
(1995 Code, § 39.09) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.10   ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT.
   The Village Clerk shall have the power to make an estimated additional
assessment, to which shall be added a penalty of 10% of the assessment, against
any person who has filed any return as required by this subchapter but who
refuses to permit the Village Clerk or a duly authorized deputy, to examine his
or her books of account and papers pertaining to the business for which the
return was made. The Village Clerk shall promptly thereafter give or send by
mail notice of the estimated additional assessment and penalty to that person,
together with written notice of the time when and the place where the person
may be heard on a petition for reassessment, as hereinafter provided.
(1995 Code, § 39.10) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.11   WHEN TAXES ARE DUE AND PAYABLE.
   (A)   Generally. All taxes and penalties resulting from any assessment made
by the Village Clerk shall be due and payable ten days after notice thereof is
given or sent by mail to the person against whom the assessment shall have been
made.
   (B)   Application for reassessment. Any person against whom an additional
assessment, estimated assessment, or estimated additional assessment shall be
made by the Village Clerk may file an application for reassessment with the
Village Clerk. The application shall be filed within 30 days after receipt of
notice of estimated assessment and penalty from the Village Clerk, and shall
contain all the arguments and reasons why the assessment and penalty should be
reversed, vacated, or modified. Within 20 days of the filing of the application
for reassessment, the Village Clerk shall redetermine his or her former
assessment, estimated assessment, or estimated additional assessment and shall
either affirm, reverse, vacate, or modify the same.
   (C)   Determination and assessment. Such determination shall be final, and
the assessment, estimated assessment, or estimated additional assessment shall
become payable ten days after notice thereof is given or sent by mail to the
person filing the application.
(1995 Code, § 39.11) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.12   NOTICES AUTHORIZED.
   Any notice authorized or required under the provisions of this subchapter
may be given by mailing the same to the person for whom it is intended, in a
postpaid envelope addressed to the person at the address given in the last
return filed by him or her pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, or to
the address as may be obtainable. The mailing of the notice shall be prima
facie evidence of the receipt of the same by the person to whom addressed. Any
period of time which is determined according to the provisions of this
subchapter by the giving of notice shall commence to run from the date of
mailing such notice.
(1995 Code, § 39.12) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.13   REFUNDS; APPLICATION.
   If within one year from the payment of any tax or penalty the payer thereof
or his or her executors, administrators, successors, or assigns shall make
application for a refund thereof, for the benefit of the person from whom the
same was collected, and the Village Clerk shall determine that the tax or
penalty, or any portion thereof, was erroneously or illegally collected, and
that the same can and will be duly refunded to the persons from whom the same
was collected, the Village Clerk shall issue his or her certificate showing the
amount so erroneously or illegally collected, and thereupon draw his or her
warrant for the certified amount on the treasurer to the person entitled to the
refund, out of the Admissions Tax Rotary Fund. For like cause and within the
same period, a refund may be so made on the initiative of the Village Clerk,
but no refund shall be made of a tax or penalty paid pursuant to a
determination of the Village Clerk as provided for in this section, unless the
Village Clerk, after a hearing as in the section provided, or on his or her own
motion, shall have reduced the tax or penalty or a court of competent
jurisdiction shall have ruled that the determination was erroneous or illegal,
in which event a refund shall be made as herein provided, on the termination of
the appeal. An application for a refund made as herein provided shall be deemed
a petition for reassessment within the meaning of this section and the Village
Clerk may receive additional evidence with respect thereto. After making his or
her determination, the Village Clerk shall give notice thereof to the
applicant.
(1995 Code, § 39.13) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
§ 39.14   MONEYS CREDITED TO GENERAL FUND.
   The moneys received under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
credited to the general fund of the village.
(1995 Code, § 39.14) (Ord. 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2015
§ 39.20   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide funds for municipal purposes
there shall be and is hereby levied a tax on qualifying wages, commissions and
other compensation, and on net profits and other taxable income as hereinafter
provided.
(1995 Code, § 39.20) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2001-O-53, passed
12-22-2003)
§ 39.21   DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   A C corporation's federal taxable income before net operating
losses and special deductions as determined under the Internal Revenue Code,
adjusted as follows:
            1.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
            2.   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (a)1. above of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            3.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
            4.   a.   Except as provided in division 4. b. below of this
section, deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the
extent the income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
               b.   Division 4. a. above of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            5.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction
in the computation of federal taxable income;
            6.   In the case of a real estate investment trust and regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
            7.   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation and is not an
individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income as if
the taxpayer were a C corporation, except;
               a.   Guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, member, or former member shall not be
allowed as a deductible expense; and
               b.   Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed
retirement plan with respect to an owner or owner-employee of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for an owner or owner-
employee, and amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for an owner or
owner-employee shall not be allowed as a deduction.
         (b)   Nothing in division (a) above of this section shall be construed
as allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
         (c)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting or
removing the ability of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and
enforce the provisions of its municipal income tax.
      ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, S corporation or any
other form of unincorporated enterprise, owned by one or more persons.
      BOARD OF REVIEW (BOARD OF APPEALS, BOARD OF ADJUDICATION AND THE LIKE).
The Board created by and constituted by the Lincoln Heights Village Council.
      BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any
nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other entity,
including but not limited to the renting or leasing of property, real, personal
or mixed.
      CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Ohio, or any other state, territory, or
foreign country or dependency.
      DOMICILE. A principal residence that the taxpayer intends to use for an
indefinite time and to which whenever he or she is absent he or she intends to
return. A taxpayer has only one domicile even though he or she may have more
than one residence.
      EMPLOYEE. One who works for wages, salary, commission or other types of
compensation in the services of an employer.
      EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, unit or agency, or any other entity, whether or not
organized for profits, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary,
wage, commission or other compensation basis.
      FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months or less ending on any day
other than December 31.
      FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form designed for reporting
estimated municipal income taxes and annual municipal income tax liability or
for filing a refund claim that is not prescribed by a particular municipal
corporation for the reporting of that municipal corporation's tax on income.
Any municipality that requires taxpayers to file income tax returns, reports,
or other documents shall accept for filing a generic form of such a return,
report, or document if the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all
of the information required to be submitted with the municipality's prescribed
returns, reports, or documents.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. Total income of taxpayers from whatever source derived.
      INCOME FROM A PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. Partnership income of partners,
membership interests of members of a limited liability company, distributive
shares of shareholders of an S corporation, or other distributive or
proportionate ownership shares of income from other pass-through entities.
      INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield;
interest; capital gains; dividends; or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in Ohio R. C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated with any
lottery winnings or other similar games of chance.
      INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat. 2085,
26 U.S.C. 1, as amended.
      INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and
nonfederal interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical
subnetwork known as the world wide web.
      JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. Districts created under the Ohio
R.C. §§ 715.70 through 715.83, as amended from time to time.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Lincoln Heights.
      NET PROFIT.
         (a)   For a taxpayer other than an individual, NET PROFIT means
adjusted federal taxable income; and
         (b)   For a taxpayer who is an individual, NET PROFIT means the
individual's profit, other than amounts described in §
39.22(F), required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or schedule F.
      NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described in
§ 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      NONRESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An incorporated business entity
not having an office or place of business within the municipality.
      NONRESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity not having an office or place of business within the municipality.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual's employer or the
employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual.
      OWNER. A partner of a partnership, a member of a limited liability
company, a shareholder of an S corporation, or other person with an ownership
interest in a pass-through entity.
      OWNER'S PROPORTIONATE SHARE. With respect to each owner of a pass-through
entity, means the ratio of:
         (a)   The owner's income from the pass-through entity that is subject
to taxation by the municipal corporation, to
         (b)   The total income from that entity of all owners whose income
from the entity is subject to taxation by that municipal corporation.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership, limited liability company, S
corporation, or any other class of entity the income or profits from which are
given pass-through treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.
      PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, business trusts, estates,
trusts, partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, corporations,
governmental entities, and any other entity.
      PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office, other than a mere statutory
office, factory, warehouse, or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity, individually or through one or
more of his or her regular employees regularly in attendance.
      PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
         (a)   In the case of an employer having headquarters' activities at a
place of business within a taxing municipality, the place of business at which
the headquarters is situated.
         (b)   In the case of any employer not having its headquarters'
activities at a place of business within a taxing municipality, the term means
the largest place of business located in a taxing municipality.
      QUALIFIED PLAN. A retirement plan satisfying the requirements under § 401
of the Internal Revenue Code as amended.
      QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted in accordance with Ohio
R.C. § 718.03(A).
      RESIDENT. Domiciled in the municipality.
      RESIDENT INCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An incorporated business entity
whose office, place or operations or business situs is within the municipality.
      RESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity having an office or place of business within the municipality.
      RETURN PREPARER. Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer.
      RULES AND REGULATIONS. The rules and regulations as set forth in this
subchapter.
      SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      S CORPORATION. A corporation that has made an election under subchapter S
of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed to administer the municipality's
Income Tax Subchapter and to direct the operation of the Municipal Income Tax
Department or the person executing the duties of the Tax Administrator.
      TAXABLE INCOME. Qualifying wages paid by an employer or employers,
compensation for personal services, other income defined by statute as taxable,
and/or adjusted federal taxable income from the operation of a business,
profession, or other enterprise or activity adjusted in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for
the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      TAXING MUNICIPALITY. A municipality levying a tax on income earned by
nonresidents working within such municipality or on income earned by its
residents.
      TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax on income levied by a municipal
corporation. TAXPAYER does not include any person that is a disregarded entity
or a qualifying subchapter S subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, but
TAXPAYER includes any other person who owns the disregarded entity or
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the
feminine and the neuter, and all periods set forth shall be inclusive of the
first and last mentioned dates.
(1995 Code, § 39.21) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2001-O-3, passed
2-26-2001; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 39.22   IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Basis of imposition. Subject to provisions of §
39.20, an annual tax shall be, and is hereby, levied on and after January 1,
1994, at the rate of 2% per annum upon the following.
      (1)   Resident individuals. On all qualifying wages, commissions, other
compensation, and other taxable income earned or received by residents of the
municipality.
      (2)   Nonresident individuals. On all qualifying wages, commissions, and
other compensation, and other taxable income earned or received by nonresidents
for work done, or services performed or rendered, in the municipality.
      (3)   Resident unincorporated businesses.
         (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits earned by all resident unincorporated businesses, pass-through
entities, professions or other activities, derived from work done or services
performed or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in the
municipality; or
         (b)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits
earned by a resident owner of a resident unincorporated business entity or
pass-through entity not attributable to the municipality and not levied against
such unincorporated business entity or pass-through entity.
      (4)   Nonresident unincorporated businesses.
         (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality on the net
profits by all nonresident unincorporated businesses, pass-through entities,
professions or other activities, derived from work done or services performed
or rendered and business or other activities conducted in the municipality,
whether or not such unincorporated business entity has an office or place of
business in the municipality; or
         (b)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits
earned by a resident owner of a nonresident unincorporated business entity or
pass-through entity not attributable to the municipality and not levied against
such unincorporated business entity or pass-through entity.
      (5)   Corporations. On the portion attributable to the municipality of
the net profits earned by all corporations that are not pass-through entities
from work done or services performed or rendered and business or other
activities conducted in the municipality, whether or not such corporations have
an office or place of business in the municipality.
      (6)   Gambling winnings. On all income received as gambling winnings as
reported on IRS Form W-2G, Form 5754 and or any other form required by the
Internal Revenue Service that reports winnings from gambling, prizes and
lottery winnings.
   (B)   Businesses both in and outside the municipal boundaries. This section
does not apply to taxpayers that are subject to and required to file reports
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 5745. Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of
this section, net profit from a business or profession conducted both within
and without the boundaries of a municipal corporation shall be considered as
having a taxable situs in such municipal corporation for purposes of municipal
income taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
multiply the entire net profits of the business by a business allocation
apportionment percentage formula to be determined by:
      (1)   (a)   The average original cost of the real and tangible personal
property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession in such
municipal corporation during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated;
         (b)   As used in the preceding paragraph, real property shall include
property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall
be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to persons employed in the business or profession for services performed
in such municipal corporation to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to persons employed in the business or profession,
wherever their services are performed, excluding compensation that is not
taxable by the municipal corporation under Ohio R.C. § 718.011;
      (3)   Gross receipts of the business or profession from sales made and
services performed during the taxable period in such municipal corporation to
gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from sales
and services, wherever made or performed; and
      (4)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
divisions (B)(1), (2) and (3) hereof, or such of the aforesaid percentages as
are applicable to the particular taxpayer and dividing the total so obtained by
the number of percentages used in deriving such total.
         (a)   A factor is applicable even though it may be apportioned
entirely in or outside the municipality.
         (b)   Provided however, that in the event a just and equitable result
cannot be obtained under the business apportionment percentage formula provided
for herein, the Tax Administrator, upon application of the taxpayer, shall have
the authority to substitute other factors or methods calculated to effect a
fair and proper apportionment.
   (C)   Definition. As used in division (B) above of this section, SALES MADE
IN A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION mean:
      (1)   All sales of tangible personal property delivered within such
municipal corporation regardless of where title passes if shipped or delivered
from a stock of goods within such municipal corporation;
      (2)   All sales of tangible personal property delivered within such
municipal corporation regardless of where title passes even though transported
from a point outside such municipal corporation if the taxpayer is regularly
engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales
within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such solicitation
or promotion; and
      (3)   All sales of tangible personal property shipped from a place within
such municipal corporation to purchasers outside such municipal corporation
regardless of where title passes if the taxpayer is not, through its own
employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or promotion of sales at the
place where delivery is made.
   (D)   Net profit from rental activity. Except as otherwise provided in
division (E) of this section, net profit from rental activity not constituting
a business or profession shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located.
   (E)   Applicability. This section does not apply to individuals who are
residents of the municipality and, except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. §
718.01, the municipality may impose a tax on all income earned by residents of
the municipality to the extent allowed by the United States Constitution.
   (F)   Net operating loss (NOL).
      (1)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained in any taxable year,
beginning with the year 1973, apportioned to the municipality may be applied
against the portion of the profit of succeeding tax years apportioned to the
municipality, until exhausted, but in no event for more than the three taxable
years immediately following the year in which the loss occurred. No portion of
a net operating loss shall be carried back against net profits of any prior
year.
      (2)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained shall be apportioned
to the municipality in the same manner as provided herein for apportioning net
profits to the municipality.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator shall provide by rules and regulations the
manner in which such net operating loss carryforward shall be determined.
      (4)   The net operating loss of a taxpayer that loses its legal identity,
by any means such as merger or consolidation, shall not be allowed as a
carryforward loss deduction to the surviving or new taxpayer.
      (5)   The net operating loss sustained by a business or profession is not
deductible from employee earnings, but may be carried forward as provided in
division (1) above. However, if a taxpayer is engaged in two or more taxable
business activities to be included in the same return, the net loss of one
unincorporated business activity (except any portion of a loss reportable for
municipal income tax purposes to another municipality) may be used to offset
the profits of another for purposes of arriving at overall net profits.
   (G)   Consolidated returns.
      (1)   A consolidated return may be filed by a group of corporations who
are affiliated through stock ownership if that affiliated group filed for the
same tax period a consolidated return for federal income tax purposes pursuant
to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code. A consolidated return must include all
companies that are so affiliated.
      (2)   Once a consolidated return has been filed for any taxable year,
consolidated returns shall continue to be filed in subsequent years unless the
applicable requirements of the rules and regulations for discontinuing the
filing of consolidated returns have been met.
   (H)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed
as levying a tax upon the following:
      (1)   Proceeds from welfare benefits, unemployment insurance benefits,
pensions, social security benefits, and qualified retirement plans as defined
by the Internal Revenue Service;
      (2)   Proceeds of insurance, annuities, workers' compensation insurance,
permanent disability benefits, compensation for damages for personal injury and
like reimbursements, not including damages for loss of profits and wages;
      (3)   Compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125
of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational organizations, or labor unions, trade or professional
associations, lodges and similar organizations;
      (5)   Gains from involuntary conversion, cancellation of indebtedness,
interest on federal obligations and income of a decedent's estate during the
period of administration (except such income from the operation of a business);
      (6)   Alimony;
      (7)   Compensation for damage to property by way of insurance or
otherwise;
      (8)   Interest and dividends from intangible property;
      (9)   Military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the
United States and of members of their reserve components, including the Ohio
National Guard (ORC 718.01);
      (10)   Income of any charitable, educational, fraternal or other type of
nonprofit association or organization enumerated in Ohio R.C. 718.01 to the
extent that such income is derived from tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt
tangible or intangible property, or tax-exempt activities;
      (11)   Any association or organization falling in the category listed in
the preceding division receiving income from non-exempt real estate, tangible
or intangible personal property, or business activities of a type ordinarily
conducted for profit by taxpayers operating for profit shall not be excluded
hereunder;
      (12)   In the event any association or organization receives taxable
income as provided in the preceding paragraph from real or personal property
ownership or income producing business located both within and without the
corporate limits of the municipality, it shall calculate its income apportioned
to the municipality under the method or methods provided above;
      (13)   If exempt for federal income tax purposes, fellowship and
scholarship grants are excluded from municipal income tax;
      (14)   The rental value of a home furnished to a minister of the gospel
as part of his or her compensation, or the rental allowance paid to a minister
of the gospel as part of his or her compensation, to the extent used by him or
her to rent or provide a home pursuant to § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (15)   Compensation paid under Ohio R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a
person serving as a precinct official, to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 annually. Such compensation in excess of $1,000 may be
subjected to taxation. The payer of such compensation is not required to
withhold municipal tax from that compensation;
      (16)   Compensation paid to an employee of a transit authority, regional
transit authority, or a regional transit commission created under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 306 for operating a transit bus or other motor vehicle for the
authority or commission in or through the municipality, unless the bus or
vehicle is operated on a regularly scheduled route, the operator is subject to
such tax by reason of residence or domicile in the municipality, or the
headquarters of the authority or commission is located within the municipality;
      (17)   The municipality shall not tax the compensation paid to a
nonresident individual for personal services performed by the individual in the
municipality on 12 or fewer days in a calendar year unless one of the following
applies:
         (a)   The individual is an employee of another person, the principal
place of business of the individual's employer is located in another
municipality in Ohio that imposes a tax applying to compensation paid to the
individual for services paid on those days; and the individual is not liable to
that other municipality for tax on the compensation paid for such services; or
         (b)   The individual is a professional entertainer or professional
athlete, the promoter of a professional entertainment or sports event, or an
employee of such promoter, all as may be reasonably defined by the
municipality;
      (18)   (a)   The income of a public utility, when that public utility is
subject to the tax levied under Ohio R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30, except a
municipal corporation may tax the following, subject to Ohio R. C. Chapter
5745:
            1.   The income of an electric company or combined company; and
            2.   The income of a telephone company.
         (b)   As used in this section, COMBINED COMPANY, ELECTRIC COMPANY, and
TELEPHONE COMPANY have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 5727.01.
      (19)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, to the extent such distributive share would not be
allocated or apportioned to this state under Ohio R.C. § 5733.05 (B)(1) and (2)
if the S corporation were a corporation subject to the taxes imposed under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 5733;
      (20)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
or losses of the S corporation; or
      (21)   Generally the above noted items in this section are the only forms
of income not subject to the tax. Any other income, benefits, or other forms of
compensation shall be taxable.
(1995 Code, § 39.22) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 93-O-23, passed
12-15-1993; Am. Ord. 2001-O-3, passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-
22-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal income tax, see Ohio R.C. §§ 718.01 through 718.07
§ 39.23   EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to the salaries,
wages, commissions and other compensation earned and shall be levied with
respect to the net profits of the businesses, professional or other activities
earned from and after the effective date of this Tax Code.
(1995 Code, § 39.23) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 93-O-23, passed
12-15-1993; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 39.24   RETURN AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Generally. Each person who engages in business or other activity or
whose, qualifying wage, commissions, other compensation, and other taxable
income is subject to the tax imposed by this Tax Code, shall, whether or not a
tax be due thereon, make and file a return on or before April 15 of the year
following the effective date of this Tax Code, and on or before April 15 of
each year thereafter. When the return is made for a fiscal year or other period
different from the calendar year, the return shall be filed on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of such fiscal year or
period. The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to provide by regulation
that the return of an employer or employers, showing the amount of municipal
tax deducted by the employer or employers from the salaries, wages, commissions
or other compensation of an employee, and paid by him, her or them to the Tax
Administrator may be accepted as the return required of any employee whose sole
income, subject to tax under this Tax Code, is such qualifying wage,
commissions, other compensation, and other taxable income.
   (B)   Mandatory filing. On or before April fifteenth of each year, every
resident subject to the provisions of §
39.35, inclusive, of the subchapter shall, except hereinafter provided, make
and file with the Tax Administrator a municipal tax return on a form prescribed
by and acceptable to the Tax Administrator, whether or not a tax is due. When
the return is made for a fiscal year or other period different from the
calendar year, the return shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the
fourth month following the end of such fiscal year or period. The Tax
Administrator is hereby authorized to provide by regulation that the return of
an employer or employers, showing the amount of municipal tax deducted by the
employer or employers from the qualifying wages, commissions, or other
compensation, and other taxable income of a nonresident employee, and paid by
him, her or them to the Tax Administrator may be accepted as the return
required of a nonresident employee whose sole income, subject to tax under this
Tax Code, is such qualifying wages, commissions, or other compensation, and
other taxable income.
   (C)   Married couple. A husband and wife may file either separate returns or
a joint return for municipal purposes, even though one of the spouses has
neither taxable income nor deductions included on the municipal return
regardless of whether their federal and state returns were filed separately or
jointly. If a joint return is made, the tax shall be computed on the aggregate
taxable income and the liability with respect to the tax shall be joint and
several.
   (D)   Filing of return. The return shall be filed with the Tax Administrator
on a form or forms furnished by or obtainable upon request from the Tax
Administrator; or on a generic form, if the generic form, when completed and
filed, contains all of the information required to be submitted with the
municipality's prescribed return and, if the taxpayer or return preparer filing
the generic form otherwise complies with the Tax Code governing the filing of
returns.
   (E)   Contents of return. The return shall set forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of qualifying wages, commissions, other
compensation received, allocated, apportioned or set aside, other income
defined by statute as taxable, and gross income from any business, profession
or other activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of such
gross income earned during the preceding year and subject to the tax;
      (2)   The amount of the tax imposed by this Tax Code on such earnings and
profits; and
      (3)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns, copies of
federal or state tax returns and/or schedules, or other information as the Tax
Administrator may require, including a statement that the figures used in the
return are the figures used for federal income tax adjusted to set forth only
such income as is taxable under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   Extensions.
      (1)   Any taxpayer that has requested an extension for filing a federal
income tax return may request an extension for the filing of a municipal income
tax return by filing a copy of the taxpayer's federal extension request with
the Municipal Tax Division. Any taxpayer not required to file a federal income
tax return may request an extension for filing a municipal income tax return in
writing. The request for extension must be filed on or before the original due
date for the annual return. If the request is granted, the extended due date of
the municipal income tax return shall be the last day of the month following
the month to which the due date of the federal income tax return has been
extended.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deny a taxpayer's request for extension
if the taxpayer:
         (a)   Fails to timely file the request;
         (b)   Fails to file a copy of the federal extension request, (if
applicable);
         (c)   Owes the municipality any delinquent income tax, penalty,
interest or other charge for the late payment or nonpayment of income tax; or
         (d)   Has failed to file any required income tax return, report, or
other related document for a prior tax period.
      (3)   The granting of an extension for filing a municipal tax return does
not extend the due date as provided in this section for payment of the tax;
hence, penalty and interest may apply to any unpaid tax during the period of
extension at the rate set out by §
39.29. No penalty shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is filed
and the final tax paid within the extension period provided all other filing
and payment requirements of the Tax Code have been met. Any extension by the
Tax Administrator shall be granted upon the condition that declaration filing
and payment requirements have been fulfilled; however, if, upon further
examination it then becomes evident that declaration filing and payment
requirements have not been fulfilled, penalty and interest may be assessed in
full and in the same manner as though no extension had been granted.
   (G)   Payments with returns.
      (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of the filing
thereof, pay to the Tax Administrator the amount of taxes shown as due.
However, credit shall be allowed for:
         (a)   Any portion of the tax which shall have been paid by the
taxpayer pursuant to the provisions of §
39.26; and
         (b)   Credit to the extent allowed by §
39.33 for tax paid to another municipality.
      (2)   Subject to the limitations contained in §
39.30 of this Tax Code, any taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to
which the municipality is entitled under the provisions of this Tax Code may
have such overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at
his or her election indicated on the return, such overpayment (or part thereof)
shall be refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less than $5
shall be collected or refunded.
   (H)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary, an amended return shall be filed in order to
report additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of
tax overpaid, subject to the requirements and/or limitations contained in §§
39.28 and
39.33. The Tax Administrator shall provide by regulation the format in which
such amended return shall be filed. A taxpayer may not change the method of
accounting or apportionment of net profits after the due date for filing the
original return.
      (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, such taxpayer shall
make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject to the
municipal tax based upon such final determination of federal tax liability and
pay any additional tax shown due thereon or make claim for refund of any
overpayment.
   (I)   Information returns, schedules and statements required to support tax
returns. Information returns, schedules and statements required to support tax
returns which are incomplete without such information shall be filed within the
time limits set forth for the filing of the tax returns and the failure to file
such information returns, schedules and statements shall be a violation of this
Tax Code. Provided, however, that the taxpayer shall have ten days after
notification by the Tax Administrator, or his or her authorized representative,
to file the items required by this division.
(1995 Code, § 39.24) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed
12-22-2003)
§ 39.25   COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Each employer within, or doing business within the municipality who
employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation
basis shall deduct, when such salary, wage, commission or other compensation is
paid, allocated, or set aside, the tax at the rate provided in §
39.22 hereof on the qualifying wages due by such employer to each such employee
and shall, on or before the fifteenth day of the month following such
withholding, make a return and payment to the Tax Administrator the amount of
taxes so deducted. The return shall be on a form or forms prescribed by or
acceptable to the Tax Administrator and shall be subject to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the Tax Administrator. Such employer shall be liable
for the payment of the tax required to be deducted and withheld, whether or not
such taxes have in fact been withheld. Nothing in this section prohibits an
employer from withholding tax on a basis greater than qualifying wages.
   (B)   An employer is not required to make any withholding with respect to an
individual's disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the
time of the disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued.
   (C)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer to withhold the tax as required by a municipal
corporation or by the employer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the
tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer to remit to the municipal corporation
the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability for that tax unless the
employee colluded with the employer in connection with the failure to remit the
tax withheld.
   (D)   Compensation deferred before the effective date of this amendment is
not subject to any municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax
withholding requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not
constitute qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or
distributed.
   (E)   So long as the taxes withheld by an employer for the municipality
during the measurement period are less than $300 per month, payments may be
made quarterly on or before the last day of the month following the end of each
quarter, subject to the approval of the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator may revoke the approval of quarterly filing and payments whenever
the Tax Administrator has reason to believe that the conditions for granting
such authorization have changed, were judged incorrectly, were not met, or when
it is in the best interest of the municipality to do so. Notice of withdrawal
shall be made in writing and, in such case, the employer must begin to file in
accordance with this section.
   (F)   Each employer in collecting such tax shall be deemed to hold the same,
until payment is made by such employer to the municipality, as a trustee for
the benefit of the municipality, and any such tax collected by such employer
from his or her employees shall, until the same is paid to the municipality, be
deemed a trust fund in the hands of such employer. Each employer shall be
liable for the payment of the tax required to be deducted and withheld, whether
or not such tax, in fact, has been withheld.
   (G)   Any person who is required to withhold tax from qualifying wages shall
pay all such tax to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of this
section. In the event taxes withheld from the qualifying wages of employees are
not paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of this section,
all officers, members, managers, employees, and trustees having control or
supervision of or charged with the responsibility of filing the return and
making payment are jointly and severally personally liable for the tax not
returned or paid to the municipality as well as any related interest and
penalties, and are also liable under the provisions of §
39.99 hereof. The dissolution, termination, or bankruptcy of a corporation,
limited liability company, or business trust does not discharge an officer's,
member's, manager's, employee's, or trustee's liability for a failure of the
corporation, limited liability company, or business trust to file returns or
pay taxes.
   (H)   Each employer shall file a withholding tax reconciliation showing the
sum total of all compensation paid all employees, the portion of which, (if
any) was not subject to withholding along with an explanation for same, and the
portion of which was subject to withholding, together with the amount of such
withholdings remitted. Such return shall include information concerning each
employee from whom the municipal tax was withheld, showing the name, address,
zip code and social security number of each such employee, the total amount of
compensation paid during the year and the amount of municipal tax withheld. If
the total tax withheld from any employee included tax withheld and remitted to
another municipality, the amount of same shall be separately shown on the
return of information to the municipality concerning each employee. The
withholding tax reconciliation shall be filed by each employer on or before
February 28 following the end of such calendar year.
   (I)   In addition to the wage reporting requirements of this section, any
person required by the Internal Revenue Service to report on Form 1099-Misc.
payments to individuals not treated as employees for services performed shall
also report such payments to the municipality when the services were performed
in the municipality. The information may be submitted on a listing, and shall
include the name, address and social security number (or federal identification
number), and the amount of the payments made. Federal form(s) 1099 may be
submitted in lieu of such listing. The information shall be filed annually on
or before February 28 following the end of such calendar year.
   (J)   No person shall be required to withhold the tax on the qualifying
wages, commissions, or other compensation, and other taxable income paid
domestic servants employed exclusively in or about such person's residence.
However, such domestic servants shall be responsible for filing and paying
their own returns and taxes.
(1995 Code, § 39.25) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 93-O-23, passed
12-15-1993; Am. Ord. 2001-O-3, passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-
22-2003)
§ 39.26   DECLARATION.
   (A)   Requirement for filing.
      (1)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not
subject to §
39.27 or who engages in any business, profession, enterprise or activity
subject to the tax imposed by §
39.22, shall file a declaration setting forth such estimated income or the
estimated profit or loss from such business activity together with the
estimated tax due thereon, if any.
      (2)   Provided, however, if a person's income is wholly from qualifying
wages from which the tax will be withheld and remitted to this municipality in
accordance with §
39.27, such person need not file a declaration.
   (B)   Dates for filing.
      (1)   Calendar dates for filing. Such declaration shall be filed on or
before April 15 of each year during the life of this subchapter, or on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the date the taxpayer
becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (2)   Fiscal dates for filing. Those taxpayers having a fiscal year or
period differing from the calendar year shall file a declaration on or before
the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the start of each fiscal year
or period.
   (C)   Forms; credit for tax withheld or paid another community.
      (1)   Such declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by or
obtainable from the Tax Administrator or an acceptable generic form, and credit
shall be taken for the municipal tax to be withheld from any portion of such
income. In accordance with the provisions of §
39.33, credit may be taken for tax to be withheld and remitted to another
taxing municipality.
      (2)   The original declaration (or any subsequent amendment thereof) may
be increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment date as
provided for herein.
      (3)   For taxpayers who are individuals, such declaration of estimated
tax to be paid the municipality shall be accompanied by a payment of at least
22.5% of the estimated annual tax and at least a similar amount shall be paid
on or before the last day of the seventh, tenth and thirteenth months after the
beginning of the taxable year.
      (4)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, such declaration of
estimated tax to be paid the municipality shall be accompanied by a payment of
at least 22.5% of the estimated annual tax and at least a similar amount shall
be paid on or before the fifteenth day of the sixth, ninth and twelfth months
after the beginning of the taxable year.
      (5)   The mere submission of a declaration estimating a tax liability
shall not constitute filing unless accompanied by the required payment.
   (D)   Amended declaration.
      (1)   A declaration may be amended at any time.
      (2)   In the event that an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due thereon shall be paid in equal installments on or before the
remaining payment dates.
   (E)   Annual return required. On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the end of the calendar or fiscal year, an annual return shall
be filed and any balance which may be due the municipality shall be paid
therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
39.24.
(1995 Code, § 39.26) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 93-O-23, passed
12-15-1993; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 39.27   APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Collection; records.
      (1)   Collection of responsibility. It shall be the duty of the Tax
Administrator to collect and receive the tax imposed by this subchapter in the
manner prescribed therein, to keep an accurate record thereof, and to report
all monies so received.
      (2)   Responsibility for maintenance of records. It shall be the duty of
the Tax Administrator to enforce payment of all income taxes owing the
municipality, to keep accurate records for a minimum of six years, showing the
amount due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration or make any
return, including a return of taxes withheld, and to show the dates and amounts
of payments thereof.
   (B)   Enforcement authority. The Tax Administrator is hereby charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter, and is hereby empowered,
subject to the approval of the Board of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to
enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the
collection of taxes and the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter, including provisions for the re-examination and correction of
returns.
   (C)   Determination of taxes. In any case where a taxpayer has failed to
file a return or has filed a return which does not show the proper amount of
tax due, the Tax Administrator may determine the amount of tax appearing to be
due the municipality from the taxpayer and may send to such taxpayer a written
statement showing the amount of tax so determined, together with interest and
penalties thereon, if any.
   (D)   Compromise authority. Subject to the consent of a majority of the
Board of Review/Adjudication, the Tax Administrator shall have the power to
compromise any liability imposed by this Tax Code.
   (E)   Compromise authority for penalty and interest liabilities. Upon the
demonstration and documentation of good cause, the Tax Administrator shall have
the power to compromise penalty and interest liabilities imposed by this
subchapter, consistent with this subchapter and the Rules and Regulations.
(1995 Code, § 39.27) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed
12-22-2003)
§ 39.28   INVESTIGATIVE POWER OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Examination of taxpayer’s records. The Tax Administrator, or any of
his or her authorized agents, is hereby authorized to examine the books,
papers, records and federal income tax returns of any employer, taxpayer, or
any person subject to, or whom the Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this subchapter for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of
any return made, or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax or
withholdings due under this subchapter. Every such employer, supposed employer,
taxpayer or supposed taxpayer is hereby directed and required to furnish, upon
written request of the Tax Administrator, or his or her duly authorized agent
or employee, the means, facilities and opportunities for making such
examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (B)   Appearance orders to taxpayers. The Tax Administrator is hereby
authorized to order any person, presumed to have knowledge of the facts, to
appear at the office of the Tax Administrator and to examine such person, under
oath, concerning any income which was or should have been reported for
taxation, or withheld, or any transaction tending to affect such income, and
for this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records and
federal income tax returns, and the attendance of all persons before him or
her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes such persons
have knowledge of such income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
   (C)   Result of refusal to submit information. The refusal to produce books,
papers, records or federal income tax returns, or the refusal to submit to such
examination by any employer or person subject, or presumed to be subject, to
the tax or by any officer, agent or employee of a person subject to the tax or
required to withhold tax, or the failure of any person to comply with the
provisions of this section or with an order or subpoena of the Tax
Administrator authorized hereby, shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter
punishable as provided in §
39.99.
   (D)   Retention of records. Every taxpayer shall retain all records
necessary to compute his or her tax liability for a period of six years from
the date his or her return is filed or the taxes required to be withheld are
paid.
   (E)   Confidential nature of information. Any information gained as a result
of returns, investigations, hearings, or verifications required or authorized
by this subchapter shall be confidential and no person shall disclose such
information except in accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection
with the performance of that person's official duties or the official business
of the municipal corporation as authorized by this subchapter. The Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation may furnish copies of returns filed
under this subchapter to the Internal Revenue Service and to the State Tax
Commissioner.
   (F)   Penalty for divulging information. Any person divulging such
information shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum fine of
$500 or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
   (G)   Punishment of immediate dismissal. In addition to the above penalty,
any employee of the municipality who violates the provisions of this section
relative to the disclosure of confidential information shall be guilty of an
offense punishable by immediate dismissal.
(1995 Code, § 39.28) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed
12-22-2003)
Penalty, see § 39.99
§ 39.29   INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Interest. All taxes imposed and monies withheld or required to be
withheld by employers under the provisions of this Tax Code and remaining
unpaid five days after they become due shall bear interest at the same rate
which Ohio R.C. § 718.12 requires be paid by municipalities on their income tax
refunds, i.e., the federal short-term rate as defined in Ohio R.C. § 5703.47,
plus 3% per year.
   (B)   Penalties. In addition to interest as provided in division (A) hereof,
penalties are hereby imposed as follows based on the tax remaining unpaid after
it becomes due:
      (1)   For failure to pay taxes due, other than taxes withheld, 1-1/2% per
month or fraction thereof, or $25, whichever is greater;
      (2)   For failure to remit taxes withheld or required to be withheld from
employees, 3% per month or fraction thereof, or $25, whichever is greater;
      (3)   Where the taxpayer has failed to file a return by the due date or
by the date resulting from extension, $25;
      (4)   Where the taxpayer has failed to file a declaration on which he or
she has estimated and paid a tax equal to or greater than the tax paid for the
previous year, or where he or she has filed a previous return and has failed to
file a declaration on which he or she has estimated and paid a tax equal to or
greater than 90% of the actual tax for the year, or has failed to file a return
and paid the total tax on or before the end of the month following the end of
the taxable year; 10% of the difference between 90% of the actual tax for the
year and the amount paid through withholding and declaration;
      (5)   No penalty or interest shall be charged against a taxpayer for the
late payment or nonpayment of estimated tax liability if the taxpayer is an
individual who resides in the municipal corporation but was not domiciled there
on the first day of January of the current calendar year; or
      (6)   Except in the case of fraud, the penalty shall not exceed 50% of
the unpaid tax.
   (C)   Exceptions. A penalty shall not be assessed on an additional tax
assessment made by the Tax Administrator when a return has been filed in good
faith and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed, by the Tax
Administrator; and provided further that, in the absence of fraud, neither
penalty nor interest shall be assessed on any additional tax assessment
resulting from a federal audit, providing an amended return is filed and the
additional tax is paid within three months after the final determination of the
federal tax liability.
   (D)   Minimum penalty. Computed penalties of less than $5 for a first
violation shall not be assessed. However, notification to the taxpayer of a
first time violation will be made.
   (E)   Abatement by Board of Review. Upon recommendation of the Tax
Administrator, the Board of Review may abate penalty or interest, or both, or
upon an appeal from the refusal of the Tax Administrator to recommend abatement
of penalty and interest concerning an item of income or expense, the Board may
nevertheless abate penalty, interest, or both.
(1995 Code, § 39.29) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2001-O-3, passed
2-26-2001; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 39.30   COLLECTION AND REFUND.
   (A)   Time limitation on suits. All taxes imposed by this subchapter shall
be collectible, together with any interest and penalties thereon, by suit as
other debts of like amount are recoverable. No additional assessment shall be
made after three years from the time the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; provided however, there shall be no period of limitation on
an additional assessment in a case of a return that omits gross income in
excess of 25% of that required to be reported or in the case of filing a false
or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax, or in the case of failure to
file a return. In those cases in which the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and
the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the federal statute of limitations the
period within which an additional assessment may be made by the Tax
Administrator shall be extended one year from the time of the final
determination of the federal tax liability.
   (B)   Time limitation on refunds. Taxes erroneously paid shall not be
refunded unless a claim for refund is made within three years from the date on
which such payment was made or the return was due, or within three months after
final determination of the federal tax liability, whichever is later.
   (C)   Interest. Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a
taxpayer of any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the
overpayment, with the following exception. No interest shall be allowed on any
overpayment that is refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the
annual return or 90 days after the complete return is filed, whichever is
later. For purposes of computing the payment of interest on overpayments, no
amount of tax for any taxable year shall be treated as having been paid before
the date on which the tax return for that year was due without regard to any
extension of time for filing that return. The interest shall be paid at the
rate of interest prescribed by Ohio R.C. 5703.47.
   (D)   Minimum amounts. Amounts of less than $5 shall not be collected or
refunded.
(1995 Code, § 39.30) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed
12-22-2003)
§ 39.31   BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Composition and procedures. A Board of Review, consisting of three
members, residents of the municipality, to be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by Council, is hereby created and shall be maintained to hear appeals.
The members of the Board of Review shall be appointed for a term of three
years; however, the members of the first Board of Review shall be appointed for
(one, two and three years respectively). A majority of the members of the Board
shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and
shall keep a record of its transactions. Any hearing by the Board shall be
conducted privately and the provisions of §
39.28 with reference to the confidential character of information required to
be disclosed by the subchapter shall apply to such matters as may be heard
before the Board on appeal.
   (B)   Appeal, an alternative method of allocation. All rules and regulations
and amendments or changes thereto which are adopted by the Tax Administrator
under the authority conferred by this subchapter, must be approved by the Board
of Review before the same become effective. After such approval, such rules,
regulations, amendments and changes shall be filed with the Clerk of Council
and shall be open to public inspection. The Board shall hear and pass on
appeals from any ruling or decision of the Tax Administrator, and, at the
request of the taxpayer or Tax Administrator, is empowered to substitute
alternate methods of apportionment.
   (C)   Tax Administrator’s decision. Whenever the Tax Administrator issues a
decision regarding an income tax obligation that is subject to appeal as
provided in this section, or in an ordinance or regulation of the municipality,
the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of
the taxpayer's right to appeal the decision and of the manner in which the
taxpayer may appeal the decision.
   (D)   Appeal by aggrieved person. Any person who is aggrieved by a decision
by the Tax Administrator and who has filed with the municipality the required
returns or other documents pertaining to the municipal income tax obligation at
issue in the decision may appeal the decision to the Board of Review by filing
a request with the Board. The request shall be in writing, shall state with
particularity why the decision should be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and
shall be filed within 30 days after the Tax Administrator has issued the
decision.
   (E)   Penalty and interest not sole basis for appeal. The imposition of
penalty and interest as prescribed in the codified ordinance of the
municipality is not a sole basis for an appeal.
   (F)   Hearing. The Board of Review shall schedule a hearing within 45 days
after receiving the request, unless the taxpayer waives a hearing. If the
taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear before the Board
and may be represented by an attorney at law, certified public accountant or
other representative.
   (G)   Board action. The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax
Administrator's decision or any part of that decision. The Board shall issue a
decision on the appeal within 90 days after the Board's final hearing on the
appeal, and send notice of its final decision by ordinary mail to all of the
parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the decision. The taxpayer
or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board's decision as provided in Ohio
R.C. § 5717.011.
   (H)   Board procedures and records. Each Board of Review created pursuant to
this section shall adopt rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record
of its transactions. Such records are not public records available for
inspection under Ohio R.C. § 149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Board of Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public
body subject to Ohio R.C. § 121.22.
(1995 Code, § 39.31) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed
12-22-2003)
§ 39.32   ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The allocation of the funds to be collected under this subchapter shall be
determined by the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 39.32) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973)
§ 39.33   CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the village who receives net
profits, salaries, wages, commissions, or other personal service compensation
for work done or services performed or rendered outside of the village, shall
be made to appear that he or she has paid a municipal income tax on the same
income taxable under this section to another municipality. The individual
taxpayer shall receive a credit not to exceed 1% of the tax assessed by this
section on such income earned in another municipality where the tax is paid.
   (B)   For purpose of clarification, if the taxpayer works in another
municipality, however that municipality's tax structure shall be, the taxpayer
residing in the Village of Lincoln Heights must, by intent and interpretation
of the amendment, pay to this municipality of which he or she is domiciled, 1%
on all moneys earned, net profits, salaries, wages, commissions, or other
personal service compensation for work done or service performed or rendered
outside the village.
   (C)   Employees of a village-based employer shall be eligible for a tax
credit for work performed in the jurisdiction of other municipal tax districts.
This provided such employee shall furnish satisfactory documentary evidence as
proof of payment of taxes to such other municipality.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator, in the absence of such records, shall regard
the taxpayer as having a taxable status in the village, regardless of where the
services are performed.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator, for apportioning purposes, will recognize
the employer's properly prepared W-2 statement allocating the respective
employee's earnings in other taxing districts.
   (D)   A claim for refund or credit under this section shall be made in such
manner as the Administrator may by regulation provide.
(1995 Code, § 39.33) (Ord. 73-11, passed 2-19-1973; Am. Ord. 78-O-26, passed
10-24-1978; Am. Ord. 93-O-23, passed 12-15-1993)
§ 39.34   INCOME TAX CREDIT.
   Resident taxpayers who are 65 years of age or older during the taxable year
shall receive a tax credit of $50, or such amount as shall be allowed in the
computation of state tax liability.
(Ord. 86-O-19, passed 2-12-1986)
§ 39.35   INFORMATION REQUIRED OF LANDLORD.
   (A)   Within 30 days after a new tenant occupies rental property of any kind
within the municipality, all owners of rental property who rent to tenants of
apartments, rooms and other rental accommodations shall file with the Tax
Administrator a report showing the name, address and telephone number, if
available, of each such tenant who occupies an apartment, room or other rental
property within the municipality.
   (B)   Within 30 days after a tenant vacates an apartment, room or other
rental property located within the municipality, the owner of such vacated
rental property shall file with the Tax Administrator a report showing the date
of vacation from the rental property and a forwarding address.
(Ord. 2001-O-5, passed 5-14-2001; Am. Ord. 2003-O-5, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 39.36   EXCLUSIONS OR EXEMPTIONS TO THE PAYMENT OF INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Precinct official (not considered taxable). Compensation paid under
Ohio R.C. §§ 3501.28 and 3501.36 to a person serving as a precinct official, to
the extent that such compensation does not exceed $1,000 annually. Such
compensation in excess of $1,000 may be subjected to taxation. The payer of
such compensation is not required to withhold village tax from that
compensation.
   (B)   Transit authority (not considered taxable). Compensation paid to any
employee of a transit authority, regional transit authority or regional transit
commission created under Ohio R.C. Chapter 306 for operating a transit bus or
other motor vehicle for the authority or commission in or through the village
unless the bus or vehicle is operated in a regularly scheduled route, the
operator is subject to such tax by reason of residence or domicile in the
village or the headquarters of the authority or commission is located within
the village.
   (C)   Public utility (not considered taxable). The income of public utility
when that utility is subject to tax levied under Ohio R.C. §§ 5727.24 or
5727.30 is not considered taxable, except starting January 1, 2002, the income
of an electric company or combined company, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 5727.01,
may be taxed in the village subject to Ohio R.C. Chapter 5745.
   (D)   Pensions (not considered taxable). Proceeds from welfare benefits,
unemployment insurance benefits, social security benefits and qualified
retirement plans as defined by IRS are not considered taxable.
(Ord. 2001-O-4, passed 2-12-2001)
FUNDS
§ 39.45   MAYOR'S DISCRETIONARY FUND.
   (A)   A Mayor's Discretionary Fund in the amount of $5,000 per year is
created. The annual appropriation ordinance shall reflect this fund each
ensuing year until provided otherwise by Council
   (B)   The Mayor shall be empowered to draw against the fund in order to
finance bona fide village goals and objectives. The Mayor may draw against the
fund either in advance of the activity contemplated, with any overage to be
returned to the fund, or the fund may be used to reimburse the Mayor for
expenditures made within the calendar year. Expenditures made from the fund
shall be ordinary and necessary in relation to the needs of or business of the
village, as set forth in I.R.C. Rule 162(a).
(Ord. 90-O-5, passed 2-14-1990)
§ 39.46   LAW ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND.
   (A)   The Village Council establishes a Law Enforcement Trust Fund. This
fund shall be in the form of a checking account maintained at a chartered and
insured banking institution. The Village Council further authorizes the
acceptance of the proceeds of drug forfeitures as ordered by any court of
competent jurisdiction, or as occurs under federal law and regulation, whether
in the form of monies, personal property, or real property.
   (B)   Any monies forfeited to the village under Ohio R.C. § 2933.43 are to
be placed in a the Law Enforcement Trust Fund, and the fund is to administered
by the Village Auditor's office in accordance with the criteria set forth
herein as well as those set forth in the applicable sections of the Ohio
Revised Code. The Village Auditor shall promptly notify the Safety-Service
Director of receipts destined for this fund, and shall provide the Safety-
Service Director with written reports of the fund balance on no less than a
monthly basis. Property that is required by law to be titled or registered
shall be titled or registered to the village, and shall be retained for the
exclusive use of the Police Department, unless sold by the terms set forth in
division (D) below. The Village Council further directs that the use of the
funds is to be subject to all requisition auditing procedures as required by
the Ohio Revised Code, directive of the Hamilton County Prosecuting Attorney,
directive of the Ohio Attorney General, or directive of the Ohio State Auditor.
The Village Council designates the Safety-Service Director as the recipient of
all notices of pending forfeiture and other notices required to be given the
village as they may pertain to the Law Enforcement Trust Fund.
   (C)   The persons authorized to requisition from the Special Fund shall be
the Safety-Service Director and the Chief of Police, acting jointly. Any
requisition not bearing both of these signatures shall not be honored.
   (D)   The Safety-Service Director is specifically empowered hereunder to
dispose of any property, either by sale, abandonment or destruction, when the
property has a fair market value at the date of its disposition equal to or
less than $1,000. The Safety-Service Director shall apply to Council for
permission to sell any property obtained by the Police Department under Ohio
R.C. § 2933.43, should he or she determine such disposition to be preferable to
destruction or retention and if the fair market value at the time of the
disposition exceeds $1,000. The Village Council may require satisfactory
showing that the monies to be obtained from the proposed sale will be of
greater expedient to law enforcement than the property will be if retained. No
weapon, dangerous ordnance, drug paraphernalia, or property that has been
illegally modified shall be sold to the public hereunder. Such articles may be
conveyed to other political subdivisions upon a showing that so doing will
further law enforcement in this or any other jurisdiction. Notice of sale shall
be given by two weeks newspaper ad, without appraisal, to highest bidder for
cash, money order or certified check payable to the “Village of Lincoln
Heights” only. Council may also direct that the notice and bid requirements be
waived and the property be conveyed to another political subdivision, should
that be recommended by the Safety-Service Director, or determined by the
Village Council to be in the greatest public interest. The proceeds of any sale
shall be administered as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   Any cash ordered forfeited to the village, together with the proceeds
of any sale hereunder are to be applied on a per case basis as follows:
      (1)   Payment of costs incurred in exacting the forfeiture;
      (2)   Payment toward the satisfaction of a valid lien held on the
property by any person holding a valid and enforceable security interest,
provided the lienholder was not on actual or constructive notice that the
property was being used in violation of state, federal or local laws;
      (3)   Payment of seizing agency's costs in storage, maintenance, security
and forfeiture of the property; and
      (4)   Deposit to the law enforcement trust fund.
   (F)   The fund shall be expended only to pay the costs of protracted or
complex investigations or prosecutions, to provide matching funds to obtain
federal grants to aid law enforcement, or for such other law enforcement
purposes that the Village Council determines to be appropriate. The fund shall
not be used to meet the operating costs of the village that are unrelated to
law enforcement. In short, the, funds are to be disbursed only for the direct
benefit of the Police Department.
(Ord. 91-O-4, passed 1-9-1991)
§ 39.47   MANDATORY DRUG FINE TRUST FUND.
   (A)   The Village Council establishes a Mandatory Drug Fine Trust Fund. This
fund shall be in the form of a checking account maintained at a chartered and
insured banking institution. The Village Council further authorizes the
acceptance of the proceeds of mandatory drug fines as ordered by any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any monies payable to the village for the benefit of the Police
Department under Ohio R.C. §§ 2925.01 et seq. are to be placed in the Mandatory
Drug Fine Trust Fund, and the fund is to administered by the Village Clerk's
office in accordance with the criteria set forth herein as well as those set
forth in the applicable sections of the Ohio Revised Code. The Village Clerk
shall promptly notify the Safety-Service Director of receipts destined for this
fund, and shall provide the Safety-Service Director with written reports of the
fund balance on no less than a monthly basis. The Village Council further
directs that the use of the funds is to be subject to all requisition auditing
procedures as required by the Ohio Revised Code, directive of the Hamilton
County Prosecuting Attorney, directive of the Ohio Attorney General, or
directive of the Ohio State Auditor. The Village Council hereby designates the
Safety-Service Director as the recipient of all notices of pending forfeiture
and other notices required to be given the village as they may pertain to the
Law Enforcement Trust Fund set forth in §
39.46 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   The fund shall be expended only to advance the investigation and
prosecution of drug-related offenses, or to purchase equipment to be used
exclusively in the investigation of drug-related offenses.
(Ord. 91-O-32, passed 12-11-1991)
§ 39.48   SPECIAL ACCOUNT FOR FUNDS RECEIVED FROM LEASE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any funds due to, and received by the village as payment for the
purchase or leasing of village-owned property shall be deposited into a special
separate account of the village.
   (B)   Funds accumulating in the special separate account shall be used
solely for expenditures related to the commercial, industrial or residential
development of the village.
   (C)   No expenditures shall be made from this special account without the
Village Council's approval.
   (D)   A full report shall be prepared by the Auditor and submitted to the
Mayor and Village Council on the last day of the February, April, June, August,
October and December and shall include the balance of funds in the special
account, funds deposited in and funds expended from the account since January 1
of each year.
(Ord. 90-O-24, passed 5-9-1990)
§ 39.49   DEBT SERVICE FUND.
   The Special Assessment Fund and the Debt Service Fund are consolidated into
one fund and shall be known as the Debt Service Fund.
(Ord. 85-O-8, passed 3-11-1985)
VILLAGE MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 39.60   MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   The village establishes and levies an annual license tax in the amount
of $5 per year per vehicle pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4504.172.
   (B)   The license tax described in division (A) above shall be levied on all
motor vehicles the district registration of which, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4503.10, is the Village of Lincoln Heights, Ohio.
(Ord. 91-O-20, passed 7-10-1991; Am. Ord. 93-O-1, passed 1-27-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic code; licensing provisions, see
Ch. 71
INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 2016
§ 39.71 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSE OF TAX.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements, the village hereby levies an annual
municipal income tax on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The annual tax is levied at a rate of 2%. The tax is levied at a
uniform rate on all persons residing in or earning or receiving income in the
village. The tax is levied on income, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided in §
39.73 and other sections as they may apply. The allocation of the funds
collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be determined by the
Village Council.
   (C)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax is
levied in accordance with, and is intended to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of Ohio R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is effective
for tax years beginning on and after January 1, 2016. Municipal tax years
beginning on or before December 31, 2015, are subject to the income tax
ordinance and amendments thereto, and rules and regulations and amendments
thereto, as they existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.72 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in Ohio R.C. Title
LVII, unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this
chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable
context in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax
and in Ohio R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the
term in the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall
control over the use of the term in Ohio R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(24)(d) of this section, means a C corporation's federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(l)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C)(l)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under Ohio R.C. §
4313.02;
         (h)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (C)(l)(h)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from net
profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce
municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net
operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years
following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for
more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (c)(1)
(h) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct more than 50% of the amount of the deduction
otherwise allowed by division (C)(l)(h)1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct the full amount allowed by (C)(l)(h)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(l)(h)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(l)(h)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(l)(h)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(l)(h)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
39.75(V)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
39.75(V)(3)(b).
         If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made an election described in division (C)(48)(b) of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (C)(24)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code
or United States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
         Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as
allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a)   ASSESSMENT. A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a
person has underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation that
commences the person's time limitation for making an appeal to the Tax Board of
Review pursuant to §
39.91, and has "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top of such
finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include a notice denying a request for
refund issued under §
39.79(C)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, the Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or the Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW. The Tax Board of Review, created under §
39.91, to hear appeals of municipal income tax matters.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to Ohio R.C.
§ 5703.056.
      (8)   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (9)   DOMICILE. The true, fixed, and permanent home of a taxpayer and to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return. A taxpayer may have
more than one residence but not more than one domicile.
      (10)   EMPLOYEE. An individual who is an employee for federal income tax
purposes.
      (11)   EMPLOYER. A person that is an employer for federal income tax
purposes.
      (12)   EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state.
         (b)   Intangible income.
         (c)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(12)(c) of this
section, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under Ohio R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a
person serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such
compensation does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in
excess of $1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations.
         (g)   Alimony and child support received.
         (h)   Compensation for personal injuries or for damages to property
from insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost
salaries or wages or compensation from punitive damages.
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under Ohio R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (C)(12)(i) of
this section does not apply for purposes of Ohio R.C. Chapter 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(35) of this section.
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder's share of net profits of the S
corporation, other than any part of the share of net profits that represents
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or net
earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         (o)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(12)(o)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
39.74(C)(2) or (C)(5) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the village under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(o)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(o)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
39.74(C)(4)(b).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(o)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
39.74(C)(2), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal place of
work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
39.74(C)(5), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(12)(o)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
            5.   For tax years 2024 and after, the income of the individuals
under 18 years of age.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(12)(p)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the village on not more than 20
days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(12)(p)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipal corporation.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(12)
(p)2.b. of this section, PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER, and
PUBLIC FIGURE have the same meanings as in §
39.74 (C).
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(12)(p) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(12)(p) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (q)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 709.023 on or
after March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (r)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (C) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the pass-
through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
      (13)   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (14)   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim.
      (15)   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total revenue derived from sales, work done,
or service rendered.
      (16)   INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(24)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(16)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(16)(a)4. of this section;
               b.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(16)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in
division (C)(12)(n) or (C)(16)(e) of this section.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of
the nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer;
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings.
      (17)   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in Ohio R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, tradenames, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (18)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
5747.01.
      (19)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (20)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. Includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
Ohio R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (21)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the village under §
39.73, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the village.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of the village,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income,
then reduced as provided in division (C)(21)(b) of this section, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for the municipal corporation.
               b.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the village,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipal corporation under
§
39.73, then reduced as provided in division (C)(21)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the village.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(21)
(a)2.a. or (C)(21)(b) of this section, the amount of the individual's employee
business expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual
deducted for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the
limitation imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may
deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes, but only to
the extent the expenses do not relate to exempt income. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation and
are not related to exempt income.
      (22)   MUNICIPALITY. The same as the village.
      (23)   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (24)   (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division (C)(24)(b) of this section, the net operating loss carried forward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)
(1)(h) of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(24)(a) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its net profits
by the village, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for the village. The
election shall be made on the annual return for the village. The village will
treat the publicly traded partnership as a C corporation if the election is so
made.
      (25)   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident.
      (26)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created
under Ohio R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business
reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing
and payment system.
      (27)   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual's employer or
the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (28)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (29)   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (30)   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (31)   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service.
      (32)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked in the manner described in division (B)(3) of Ohio
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (33)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent
such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the village that was
adopted by the village before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and
utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such the village in future
taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (34)   PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP. Any partnership, an interest in which
is regularly traded on an established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED
PARTNERSHIP may have any number of partners.
      (35)   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock
purchased under a stock option and the municipal corporation has not, by
resolution or ordinance, exempted the amount from withholding and tax adopted
before January 1, 2016. Division (C)(35)(b)2. of this section applies only to
those amounts constituting ordinary income.
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(35)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(35)(b) of this section or Ohio
R.C. § 718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of
the 130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (36)   RELATED ENTITY.
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(36)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(36)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (37)   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person
to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, " twenty
percent (20%)" shall be substituted for "five percent (5%)" wherever "five
percent (5%)" appears in section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (38)   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipal
corporation as determined under §
39.73 (E).
      (39)   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      (40)   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (43)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (44)   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; compensation; commissions; premiums; money; property;
grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient
service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees;
tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of
payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and
any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under
generally accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the
federal government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (45)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The person executing the duties of the Tax
Administrator for administration of the income tax levied by the village in
accordance with this chapter.
      (46)   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in section 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (47)   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (48)   (a)   TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(48)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of Ohio R.C. § 718.01 as that section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(48)(b)1.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (49)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to
taxpayers in §§
39.79,
39.82,
39.83,
39.89(B),
39.90,
39.91, and Ohio R.C. §§ 5717.011 and 5717.03, and the responsibilities of
taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay municipal income tax and
otherwise comply with Ohio R.C. Chapter 718 and resolutions, ordinances, and
rules and regulations adopted by the village for the imposition and
administration of a municipal income tax.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
3770.21.
      (51)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of
the state pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3770.21.
      (52)   VILLAGE. The Village of Lincoln Heights, Ohio.
; Am. Ord. 2023-O-4, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 39.73 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The income tax levied by the village at a rate of 2% is levied on the
municipal taxable income of every person residing in and/or earning and/or
receiving income in the village.
Individuals.
   (A)   For residents of the village, the income tax levied herein shall be on
all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions, and other compensation
from whatever source earned or received by the resident, including the
resident's distributive share of the net profit of pass-through entities owned
directly or indirectly by the resident and any net profit of the resident. This
is further detailed in the definition of income (§
39.72(C)(16)).
   (B)   For nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions,
and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by the
nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or activities
conducted in the municipal corporation, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
   (C)   For residents and nonresidents, income can be reduced to MUNICIPAL
TAXABLE INCOME as defined in §
39.72 (C)(21). Exemptions which may apply are specified in §
39.72 (C)(12).
Refundable Credit for Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.
   (D)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (b)   QUALIFYING LOSS. The amount of compensation attributable to a
taxpayer's nonqualified deferred compensation plan, less the receipt of money
and property attributable to distributions from the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan. Full loss is sustained if no distribution of money and
property is made by the nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The taxpayer
sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the taxpayer
receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   1.   QUALIFYING TAX RATE. The applicable tax rate for the
taxable year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to the village with respect
to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If different tax rates applied for different taxable years,
then the qualifying tax rate is a weighted average of those different tax
rates. The weighted average shall be based upon the tax paid to the village
each year with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (d)   REFUNDABLE CREDIT. The amount of the village income tax that was
paid on the non-distributed portion, if any, of a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
      (2)   If, in addition to the village, a taxpayer has paid tax to other
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan, the amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal
corporation shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's
proportionate share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the
taxpayer to all municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the
village for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this division is allowed only to the
extent the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
Domicile.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the village
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
village on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax
Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (E)(1)(a) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
village for all or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the village for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual's residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation where the educational institution is located;
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
village. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the village if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the village and while away overnight from
that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the village.
      (3)   All additional applicable factors are provided in the Rules and
Regulations.
Businesses.
   (F)   This division applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or
profession in the village, unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in
the village or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2) and (G) of this
section, net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the village shall be considered as having a taxable
situs in the village for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same
proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         (a)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
            As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value
of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon
by eight;
         (b)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under §
39.74(C);
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
village to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same
period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (F)(1) of
this section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business
activity in the village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of
the village may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
39.82(A).
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (F)(2)(a) of this
section, but only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period
prescribed by §
39.82(A).
         (d)   Nothing in division (F)(2) of this section nullifies or
otherwise affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by the Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (F)(1)(b) of this section, WAGES, SALARIES, AND
OTHER COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to
an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
            3.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described
in division (F)(3)(a)2. of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (F)(3)(a) or (b) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If the Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer
may dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (F)(l)(c) of this section, and except
as provided in division (G) of this section, receipts from sales and rentals
made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation as
follows:
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in the village if,
regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the following
criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village
from a stock of goods located within the village.
            2.   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
            3.   The property is shipped from a place within the village to
purchasers outside the village, provided that the taxpayer is not, through its
own employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or promotion of sales at
the place where delivery is made.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
      (5)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual, shall be subject to the village tax only if the
property generating the net profit is located in the village or if the
individual taxpayer that receives the net profit is a resident of the village,
the village shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for
the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this division to the
municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (6)   (a)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker
relating to the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to the village, if
applicable, based upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate located in the
village to the commissions received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real
estate everywhere in the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of the village shall report the
individual's net profit from all real estate activity on the individual's
annual tax return for the village. The individual may claim a credit for taxes
the individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under the village income tax ordinance.
      (7)   When calculating the ratios described in division (F)(1) of this
section for the purposes of that division or division (F)(2) of this section,
the owner of a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (G)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER means an individual who is
an employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership
interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
            1.   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location.
            2.   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
         (b)   QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION means a permanent or temporary
location at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform
services for the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or
any other location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this chapter. An employee or owner may have more
than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
         (c)   REPORTING LOCATION means either of the following:
            1.   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer;
            2.   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer
or client of the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under § 39.74, on qualifying wages paid to an employee for the
performance of personal services at that location.
         (d)   QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION means one of the following:
            1.   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year;
            2.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (G)(1)(d)1. of this section, the reporting location in
this state at which the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly or
periodically reports during the taxable year;
            3.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (G)(l)(d)1. or 2. of this section, the location that
the taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's qualifying
reporting location, provided the assignment is made in good faith and is
recorded and maintained in the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer may
change the qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or owner
under this division at any time.
      (2)   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a taxpayer may
elect to apply the provisions of this division to the apportionment of its net
profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers that make this election,
the provisions of division (F) of this section apply to such apportionment
except as otherwise provided in this division.
         A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division in
writing on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a timely
filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an assessment. The
election applies to the taxable year for which that return or appeal is filed
and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer revokes the election.
         The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the tax
administrator of each municipal corporation with which, after applying the
apportionment provisions authorized in this division, the taxpayer is required
to file a net profit tax return for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be
required to notify the tax administrator of a municipal corporation in which a
qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is
located, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required to file a net profit return
with that municipal corporation due to business operations that are unrelated
to the employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work location.
         After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election applies to
every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business. The
taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
         Nothing in this division prohibits a taxpayer from making a new
election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
      (3)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division (F)
(1) of this section, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the
election described in division (G)(2) of this section:
         (a)   For the purpose of division (F)(1)(a) of this section, the
average original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying
remote employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work location
shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
         (b)   For the purpose of division (F)(1)(b) of this section, any
wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
         (c)   For the purpose of division (F)(1)(c) of this section, and
notwithstanding division (F)(4) of this section, any gross receipts of the
business or profession from services performed during the taxable period by a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
      (4)   Nothing in this division prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or a
tax administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or
a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (F)(2) of this section. However, a tax administrator
shall not require an alternative apportionment method in such a manner that it
would require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in that municipal corporation.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, nothing in this
division is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages
pursuant to §
39.74.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-O-03, passed 2-22-2016; Am.
Ord. 2023-O-4, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 39.74 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
Withholding Provisions.
   (A)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or doing
business in the village shall withhold an income tax from the qualifying wages
earned and/or received by each employee in the village. Except for qualifying
wages for which withholding is not required under §
39.73 or division (B)(4) or (B)(6) of this section, the tax shall be withheld
at the rate specified in §
39.73, of 2.0%. An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall deduct
and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date that the employer,
agent, or other payer directly, indirectly, or constructively pays the
qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit of, the
employee.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, an
employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the Tax
Administrator of the village the greater of the income taxes deducted and
withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent, or other payer according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the village in the preceding calendar year exceeded $2,399, or if the
total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and
withheld on behalf of the village in any month of the preceding calendar
quarter exceeded $200.
            Payment under division (B)(1)(a) of this section shall be made so
that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days
after the last day of each month for which the tax was withheld.
         (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(a) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter.
      (2)   If the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under section 6302 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 C.F.R. 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation, the
payment and subsequent payments, based on the Tax Administrator's
determination, may be required to be made by electronic funds transfer to the
Tax Administrator of all taxes deducted and withheld on behalf of the village.
The payment of tax by electronic funds transfer under this division does not
affect an employer's, agent's, or other payer's obligation to file any return
as required under this section.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by Tax Administrator and the village as the return
required of a non-resident employee whose sole income subject to the tax under
this chapter is the qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent
of an employer, or other payer.
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required
to withhold the village income tax with respect to an individual's
disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the
disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the
corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such
corporation's successor entity.
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer
to remit to the village the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to the
village income tax or income tax withholding requirement to the extent the
deferred compensation does not constitute qualifying wages at the time the
deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the village until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing:
         (a)   The names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of all
employees from whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been
withheld for the village during the preceding calendar year;
         (b)   The amount of tax withheld, if any, from each such employee, the
total amount of qualifying wages paid to such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (c)   The name of every other municipal corporation for which tax was
withheld or should have been withheld from such employee during the preceding
calendar year;
         (d)   Any other information required for federal income tax reporting
purposes on Internal Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with
respect to such employee;
         (e)   Other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold the village income
tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and
constituting qualifying wages, but only to the extent that the tips and
gratuities are under the employer's control. For the purposes of this division,
a tip or gratuity is under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is
paid by the customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee,
or if the customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or
other electronic means.
      (11)   The Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an
employer at the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required
to be withheld by this chapter, to be tax required to be withheld and remitted
for the purposes of this section.
Occasional Entrant - Withholding.
   (C)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         (b)   FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         (c)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK. The fixed location to which an employee
is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If
the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a regular and
ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite
location in this state to which the employee is required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's employer.
            If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's
qualifying wages subject to division (C)(2)(a)1. of this section among those
two or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair
and reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee's "principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
            For the purposes of this division, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be determined in accordance with
division (C)(2)(b) of this section, except that "location" shall be substituted
for "municipal corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that
division.
         (d)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         (e)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         (f)   PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         (g)   WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (C)(3), (C)(5), (C)(6), and (C)(7) of
this section, an employer is not required to withhold the village income tax on
qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal services
in the village if the employee performed such services in the village on 20 or
fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the following conditions applies:
            1.   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
village.
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the village. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in the
village at which the employer provides or provided services that can reasonably
be, or would have been, expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a
calendar year. Services can reasonably be expected by the employer to last more
than 20 days if either of the following applies at the time the services
commence:
               a.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of the services to complete the services;
               b.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform the services at
the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of the village and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
39.74.
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (C)(2)(a) of this section, an
employee shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in the
village only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in the village than in any other municipal corporation
on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an employee
spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more of the
following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the employee's
principal place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (C)
(2)(b)3. of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in another
Ohio municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (C)(2)(a) of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee's qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to that municipal corporation.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(4)(b) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in the village exceeds the 20-day threshold, the employer
shall withhold and remit tax to the village for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in the village.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for the village
under division (C)(4)(a) of this section may elect to withhold tax for the
village for the first 20 days on which the employer paid qualifying wages to
the employee for personal services performed in the village.
      (5)   If an employer's fixed location is the village and the employer
qualifies as a small employer as defined in §
39.72, the employer shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the
employee's qualifying wages for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the
village, regardless of the number of days which the employee worked outside the
corporate boundaries of the village.
         To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, the employer will be required to provide the Tax Administrator
with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (C)(2)(a) and (C)(4) of this section shall not apply to
the extent that the Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement
regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements
of §
39.74.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.75 ANNUAL RETURN; FILING.
   (A)   An annual village income tax return shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for each taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, whether or not a tax is due thereon.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer under §
39.74 when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to the tax
is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due the village.
      (2)   Retirees having no municipal taxable income for the village income
tax purposes may file with the Tax Administrator a written exemption from these
filing requirements on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator. The written
exemption shall indicate the date of retirement and the entity from which
retired. The exemption shall be in effect until such time as the retiree
receives municipal taxable income taxable to the village, at which time the
retiree shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the village, the return or notice required of that individual shall
be completed and filed by the individual's duly authorized agent, guardian,
conservator, fiduciary, or other person charged with the care of the person or
property of that individual.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
   (E)   The village shall permit spouses to file a joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this division shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer. The return shall
include the taxpayer's Social Security number or taxpayer identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of
perjury.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall require a taxpayer who is an individual
to include, with each annual return and amended return, copies of the following
documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and
Tax Statements," including all information reported on the taxpayer's federal
W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal
corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1040; and, with
respect to an amended tax return, any other documentation necessary to support
the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files
the annual return required by this section electronically is not required to
provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless
the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return, or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form
1065, form 1120, form 1120-REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect
to an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary
to support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the village to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of Ohio R.C. § 5747.08. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is required
if the net amount due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer that is not
an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of the
taxpayer's taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the village. No remittance is required
if the net amount due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of the village income tax
return. The extended due date of the village income tax return shall be the
15th day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to which the
return relates. For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, the extended
due date of the village income tax return for a taxpayer that is not an
individual shall be the 15th day of the 11th month after the last day of the
taxable year to which the return relates. An extension of time to file under
this division is not an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax
Administrator grants an extension of that date.
         (a)   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with
the filing of the village income tax return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may submit a
written request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month
extension of the date for filing the taxpayer's the village income tax return.
If the request is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the
village income tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the
taxpayer's requested extension.
      (3)   If the state Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date
for filing state income tax returns under division (G) of Ohio R.C. § 5747.08,
a taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of the
village income tax return. The extended due date of the village income tax
return shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax
return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the village, the Tax Administrator may
require taxpayers to file returns and make payments otherwise than as provided
in this division, including taxpayers not otherwise required to file annual
returns.
      (5)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return under division (G)(2), (G)(3), or (G)(4) of this section, the
tax administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the taxpayer
with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the return
or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever occurs
first.
         If a tax administrator violates division (G)(5) of this section, the
municipal corporation shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs
incurred to respond to such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
         Division (G)(5) of this section does not apply to an extension
received under division (G)(2) of this section if the tax administrator has
actual knowledge that the taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as
required to receive the extension under division (G)(2) of this section or
failed to file for an extension under division (G)(2)(b) of this section.
      (6)   To the extent that any provision in this division (G) of this
section conflicts with any provision in divisions (N), (O), (P), or (Q) of this
section, the provisions in divisions (N), (O), (P), or (Q) prevail.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the village shall not
require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the net amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the village for a taxable
year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the village an
annual net profit return under division (F)(3) of this section.
   (I)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer, the
payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. This division shall not
apply to payments required to be made under §
39.74(B)(1)(a) or provisions for semi-monthly withholding.
   (J)   Taxes withheld for the village by an employer, the agent of an
employer, or other payer as described in §
39.74 shall be allowed to the taxpayer as credits against payment of the tax
imposed on the taxpayer by the village, unless the amounts withheld were not
remitted to the village and the recipient colluded with the employer, agent, or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the village to be filed in accordance with
this division shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator shall accept for filing a generic form of any
income tax return, report, or document required by the village, provided that
the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information
required by ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations adopted by the
village or the Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return
preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this
chapter and of the village ordinance, resolution, or rules and regulations
governing the filing of returns, reports, or documents.
Filing via Ohio Business Gateway.
   (M)   (1)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect
to the taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file the village
income tax return, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
Extension for Service in or for the Armed Forces.
   (N)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the village
for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time
for payment of taxes required by the village during the period of the member's
or civilian's duty service, and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall
be filed on or before the 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (O)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. The Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as
the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator determines that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the village before the 181st day after the applicant's active
duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (O)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (P)   (l)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (N) and (O) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the village in accordance with
this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (P)(2)(a) of
this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension that
the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
division, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces.
         (b)   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division (P)
(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of this section in
calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (Q)   For each taxable year to which division (N), (O), or (P) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (O)(2) and (O)(3) of
this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing
status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
Consolidated Municipal Income Tax Return.
   (R)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in
section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group
includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed
for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (R)(l) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 5727.01.
   (S)   (l)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the village
income tax in that taxable year, and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting method is
required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (S)(2) of this section
or a taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (S)(l) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (S)(l) or (S)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (T)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated village income tax return for that taxable year if the Tax
Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that intercompany
transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that there has been a
distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to allocation of net
profits to the village. A taxpayer that is required to file a consolidated
village income tax return for a taxable year shall file a consolidated village
income tax return for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer
requests and receives written permission from the Tax Administrator to file a
separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
   (U)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated village income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (V)   (l)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (V)(2), (V)(3), and
(V)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
39.72, by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for "federal
taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that division and
by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C corporation's"
wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
39.72(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return shall do one of the
following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
39.75(R) through (Y), exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit
sitused to the village. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
39.75(R) through (Y), include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit
sitused to the village. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
39.75(R) through (Y), exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit
sitused to the village;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to the village income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (W)   Corporations filing a consolidated village income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
39.75(R) through (Y) by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income
attributable to" for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in
that section and by substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for
"taxpayer" wherever "taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (X)   Each corporation filing a consolidated village income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by the village in accordance with this chapter on the
corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any
portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such an affiliated
group.
   (Y)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with the village before January 1, 2016, to file a
consolidated or combined tax return with the village may continue to file
consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such election or
agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015; Am. Ord. 2023-O-4, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 39.76 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   Every individual taxpayer domiciled in the village who is required to
and does pay, or has acknowledged liability for, a municipal tax to another
municipality on or measured by the same income, qualifying wages, commissions,
net profits or other compensation taxable under this chapter may claim a
nonrefundable credit upon satisfactory evidence of the tax paid to the other
municipality. Subject to division (C) of this section, the credit shall not
exceed tax computed at the rate of the other municipality or the rate of 1.0%,
whichever is the lower rate.
   (B)   The village shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the village who works in a joint economic development zone created
under Ohio R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created
under Ohio R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a
credit against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation.
   (C)   If the amount of tax withheld or paid to the other municipality is
less than the amount of tax required to be withheld or paid to the other
municipality, then for purposes of division (A) of this section, the income,
qualifying wages, commissions, net profits or other compensation subject to tax
in the other municipality shall be limited to the amount computed by dividing
the tax withheld or paid to the other municipality by the tax rate for that
municipality.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.77 ESTIMATED TAXES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates
to be the taxpayer's tax liability for the village income tax for the current
taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to the village for the taxable
year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and after
applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from another
taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld for the village from qualifying wages shall be
considered as paid to the village in equal amounts on each payment date unless
the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all amounts were actually withheld,
in which case they shall be considered as paid on the dates on which the
amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by
the Tax Administrator. A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months
shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
39.75(G) or on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the taxpayer
becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the village,
including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and withholding on
or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the 15th day of the sixth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the 15th day of the ninth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the 15th day of the 12th month of the taxable year,
90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the
return in accordance with §
39.75.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
39.88 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the village under §
39.75 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the village but was
not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.78 ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds $.50
shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a dollar
that is less than $.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses to round amounts
entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered on the
document.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.79 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (A)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
39.88.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator, in
accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of employers,
other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or withholding tax
levied by the village:
      (1)   Overpayments of $10 or more;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested is $10 or more.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, requests for
refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor's claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (C)
(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If the Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund
request included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax
return, the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and
instructions for requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
39.91.
   (D)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (C) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (E)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
39.88(A)(4).
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.80 SECOND MUNICIPALITY IMPOSING TAX AFTER TIME PERIOD ALLOWED FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited with the village, but should have
been deposited with another municipality, is allowable by the village as a
refund but is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds.
   (B)   Income tax that was deposited with another municipality but should
have been deposited with the village is subject to recovery by the village. If
the village tax on that income is imposed after the time period allowed for a
refund of the tax or withholding paid to the other municipality, the village
shall allow a nonrefundable credit against the tax or withholding the village
claims is due with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the first municipality with respect to such income or
wages.
   (C)   If the village tax rate is less than the tax rate in the other
municipality, then the nonrefundable credit shall be calculated using the
village tax rate. However, if the village tax rate is greater than the tax rate
in the other municipality, the tax due in excess of the nonrefundable credit is
to be paid to the village, along with any penalty and interest that accrued
during the period of nonpayment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carryforward.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.81 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   If a taxpayer's tax liability shown on the annual tax return for
the village changes as a result of an adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or
state income tax return, the taxpayer shall file an amended return with the
village. The amended return shall be filed on a form required by the Tax
Administrator.
      (2)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due, together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, no payment need be made. The amended return shall reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return only:
         (a)   To determine the amount of tax that would be due if all facts,
figures, computations, and attachments were reopened; or,
         (b)   If the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or
prosecutions under §
39.82 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened; i.e., the payment shall be the lesser of the two amounts.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by division (D) of this
section for filing the amended return, even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is less than $10, no refund need be
paid by the village. A request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations only to those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal or state income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
39.79.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened. All facts, figures, computations, and attachments may be reopened to
determine the refund amount due by inclusion of all facts, figures,
computations, and attachments.
   (D)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer's village tax liability, that taxpayer
shall make and file an amended village return showing income subject to the
village income tax based upon such final determination of federal or state tax
liability. The taxpayer shall pay any additional village income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is less than $10.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.82 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with the Tax Board of Review the request described in §
39.91. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Tax Board of Review did
not have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part
of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Tax Board of Review becomes final or, if any party
appeals from the determination of the Tax Board of Review, the 60th day after
the date on which the final determination of the Tax Board of Review is either
ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed and no further
appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that reversal is
available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
39.79.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the village does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Tax Board of Review, of the Ohio Board
of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax
Appeals has been appealed, so that the resultant amount due is less than the
amount paid, a refund will be paid in the amount of the overpayment as provided
by §
39.79, with interest on that amount as provided by §
39.79(E).
   (E)   No civil action to recover the village income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.83 AUDITS.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during the audit and a statement of the
taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person conducting
an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the taxpayer's
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner.
   This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not
an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.84 SERVICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address the Tax Administrator has at the
time a document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the Tax
Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a change
of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery
service under Ohio R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS. An address to which the postal service or an
authorized delivery service under Ohio R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver
an assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for non-delivery
is because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) of this section, a copy of each assessment
shall be served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under Ohio R.C. § 5703.056.
With the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the Tax
Administrator may deliver the assessment through alternative means as provided
in this section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure electronic
mail.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a
new last known address, including the use of a change of address service
offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery service under Ohio R.C.
§ 5703.056. If the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a new last known
address, the assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and considered served.
If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an undeliverable
address, the assessment remains appealable within 60 days after the
assessment's postmark.
         (b)   Once the Tax Administrator or other village official, or the
designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by filing an
appeal with the Tax Board of Review within 60 days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(C)(1)(a) of this section is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and
that the assessment is served.
      (2)   If mailing of an assessment by the Tax Administrator by certified
mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address, the Tax
Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The assessment
shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and include the
following statement:
"This assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee under applicable law
ten days from the date this assessment was mailed by the Tax Administrator as
shown on the assessment, and all periods within which an appeal may be filed
apply from and after that date."
         Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable address,
the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery of the
assessment was completed ten days after the Tax Administrator sent the
assessment by ordinary mail and that the assessment was served.
         If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (C)
(1)(a) of this section. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and
service under this division in accordance with division (D) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (C) of this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent by certified
mail was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the
Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (D)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other village
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Tax Board of Review.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator's designee from delivering an assessment by the Tax Administrator
by personal service.
   (F)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, including those on which a claim has been
delivered for collection, shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under
this section.
   (G)   Additional regulations as detailed in the Rules and Regulations shall
apply.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.85 ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the village that arises pursuant to the village income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from doing
either of the following if such action is in the best interests of the village:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall be to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not eliminate or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.86 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this chapter is
confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such information except in
accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection with the performance
of that person's official duties or the official business of the village as
authorized by this chapter. The Tax Administrator or a designee thereof may
furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received under this chapter and
other related tax information to the Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax
Commissioner, and tax administrators of other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the village from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.87 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by the village ordinance or state law
to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel, or
advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend, or
knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment of
the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the village or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.88 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW. This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the village provided they impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of the village.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of the
Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income
tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by the village pursuant
to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION. The
federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus 5%.
The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year
in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with division
(A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with the Tax Administrator or the
village by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other payer
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid
by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the
date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the village on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules and regulations, as adopted before January 1, 2016, of
the village to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be made.
   (C)   Should any taxpayer, employer, agent of the employer, or other payer
for any reason fail, in whole or in part, to make timely and full payment or
remittance of income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file
timely with the village any return required to be filed, the following
penalties and interest shall apply:
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (A) of
this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax,
and unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   (a)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, the village may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely
paid.
         (b)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, the village may
impose a penalty equal to 50% of the amount not timely paid.
      (3)   (a)   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with
respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the village may
impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each return, regardless
of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any fraction thereof, during
which the return remains unfiled regardless of the liability shown thereon. The
penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
         (b)   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect
to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the village may impose a
penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the village shall abate
or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first failure to timely file a
return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires the village to refund or credit any
penalty, amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that the village has
properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (E)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of the village to abate
or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when the
Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion, that
such abatement is appropriate.
   (F)   By the 31st day of October of each year the village shall publish the
rate described in division (A) of this section applicable to the next
succeeding calendar year.
   (G)   The village may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer, or any other payer the village’s post-judgment collection costs and
fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015; Am. Ord. 2023-O-4, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 39.89 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
Authority.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the authority of the Tax
Administrator to perform any of the following duties or functions, unless the
performance of such duties or functions is expressly limited by a provision of
the Ohio Revised Code:
      (1)   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of a query nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths.
         (b)   The powers referred to in this division of this section shall be
exercised by the Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of
the duties respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under the village
income tax ordinance;
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, for any reason overpaid. In addition, the Tax
Administrator may investigate any claim of overpayment and, if the Tax
Administrator finds that there has been an overpayment, make a written
statement of the Tax Administrator's findings, and approve and issue a refund
payable to the taxpayer, the taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as
provided in this chapter;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
39.73;
      (7)   (a)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, re-determine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, or orders the Tax Administrator has made.
         (b)   If an appeal has been filed with the Tax Board of Review or
other appropriate tribunal, the Tax Administrator shall not review, re-
determine, or correct any tax finding, determination, computation, or order
which the Tax Administrator has made, unless such appeal or application is
withdrawn by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
39.74.
Verification of Accuracy of Returns and Determination of Liability.
   (B)   (1)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee
thereof may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income
tax returns of any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or
that the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no
return was filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written
request by the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee
thereof, every employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is
required to furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized
agent, or employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and
federal and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated
in the request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that the Tax Administrator believes is subject
to, the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator may require any person, by notice served on that person, to keep
such records as the Tax Administrator determines necessary to show whether or
not that person is liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax
levied by the village or for the withholding of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal or state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
Identification Information.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
requiring any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to
provide identifying information, which may include the person's Social Security
number, federal employer identification number, or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
39.88, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
39.98.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under §
39.89(C) within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such
identifying information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax
Administrator from imposing a penalty pursuant to §
39.88.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
39.98 for a violation of §
39.87 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.90 REQUEST FOR OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator in accordance with the Rules and Regulations.
   (C)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section. Such refusal is not subject to appeal.
   (E)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator binds the Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (F)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section is not
subject to appeal.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.91 TAX BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Board of Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the village, but
such appointees may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the village at any time during their term or in the five years (which applies
only to these two appointments) immediately preceding the date of appointment.
One member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the village. This member may be
an employee of the village, but may not be the director of finance or
equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an
employee directly involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate
thereof.
      (2)   The term for members of the Tax Board of Review for the village
shall be two years. There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may
serve if the member is reappointed by the legislative authority. The board
member appointed by the Mayor of the village shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (3)   Members of the Tax Board of Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member,
the legislative authority must give the member a copy of the charges against
the member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person
or by counsel in the member's own defense upon not less than ten days' notice.
The decision by the legislative authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (4)   A member of the Tax Board of Review who, for any reason, ceases to
meet the qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall
resign immediately by operation of law.
      (5)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Tax Board of Review shall impair the
power and authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
Tax Board of Review.
      (6)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Tax Board of
Review due to a conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the
legislative authority or top administrative official that appointed the member
shall appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Tax Board of
Review in the member's place. The appointment of such an individual shall be
subject to the same requirements and limitations as are applicable to the
appointment of the member temporarily unable to serve.
   (B)   Whenever the Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Tax Board of Review by filing a request with the Tax Board of Review.
The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the
assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60
days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Tax Board of Review shall schedule a hearing to be held within 60
days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of this
section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Tax Board of Review and may be represented by an attorney at law,
certified public accountant, or other representative. The Tax Board of Review
may allow a hearing to be continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In
such a case, the hearing must be completed within 120 days after the first day
of the hearing unless the parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Tax Board of Review may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax
Administrator's assessment or any part of that assessment. The Tax Board of
Review shall issue a final determination on the appeal within 90 days after the
Tax Board of Review's final hearing on the appeal, and send a copy of its final
determination by ordinary mail to all of the parties to the appeal within 15
days after issuing the final determination. The taxpayer or the Tax
Administrator may appeal the Tax Board of Review's final determination as
provided in Ohio R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Tax Board of Review created pursuant to this section shall adopt
rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its transactions.
Such records are not public records available for inspection under Ohio R.C. §
149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a Tax Board of Review created
pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body subject to Ohio R.C.
§ 121.22.
   (G)   All rules and regulations and amendments or changes thereto, which are
adopted by the Tax Administrator under the authority conferred by this chapter,
shall be approved by the Tax Board of Review before the same become effective.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.92 AUTHORITY TO CREATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the legislative authority of the
village, or the Tax Administrator pursuant to authority granted to the Tax
Administrator by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer an
income tax imposed by the village in accordance with this chapter. Such rules
shall not conflict with or be inconsistent with any provision of this chapter.
Such rules are subject to the approval of the Tax Board of Review. Taxpayers
are hereby required to comply not only with the requirements of this chapter,
but also to comply with the Rules and Regulations.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.93 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, TENANT means:
      (1)   If there is a written lease or rental agreement, the person or
persons who signs the written lease or rental agreement with the owner.
      (2)   If there is an oral lease or rental agreement, the person or
persons with whom the owner enters into the oral lease or rental agreement.
   (B)   All property owners of rental or lease property who rent to tenants of
residential, commercial or industrial premises, shall file with the Tax
Administrator a report showing the name(s), address, and also telephone number
if available, of each tenant who occupies residential, commercial or industrial
premises within the corporation limits of the village.
   (C)   On or before the end of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter, all property owners of rental or leased residential, commercial or
industrial property who rent to tenants, shall file with the Tax Administrator
a report showing the name(s), address, and also telephone number if available,
of each tenant who occupies residential, commercial or industrial premises
within the corporation limits of the village. For tenants who have vacated a
rental or leased residential, commercial or industrial property located within
the village, the reports shall also include the date of vacating from the
rental or leased residential, commercial or industrial property and identifying
such vacating tenant, and also forwarding address if available.
   (D)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
39.98:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.94 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose the
tax herein provided for. Any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter
or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the several
groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein if found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, or part hereof,
not been included therein.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.95 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes is
concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax so levied or
enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall continue
effective until all of said taxes levied hereunder in the aforesaid periods are
fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said
taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter shall have been fully
terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
39.82 and §
39.98.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
39.75 and §
39.74 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.96 ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO R.C. §§ 718.80 TO 718.95.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein by reference R.C. §§
718.80 to 718.95 for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
   (B)   A taxpayer, as defined in division (C) of this section, may elect to
be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 in lieu of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   TAXPAYER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 7I8.01, except that
"taxpayer" does not include natural persons or entities subject to the tax
imposed under R.C. Chapter 5745. TAXPAYER may include receivers, assignees, or
trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of a
taxpayer.
(Ord. 2023-O-4, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 39.98 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   The provisions in this section are effective for tax years beginning on and
after January 1, 2016. For tax years with an effective date prior to January 1,
2016, see §
39.99.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
39.74,
39.86(A), or
39.87 by failing to remit the village income taxes deducted and withheld from
an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. If the individual that commits the violation is an
employee, or official, of the village, the individual is subject to discharge
from employment or dismissal from office.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of §
39.86(A) shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. If the individual
that commits the violation is an employee, or official, of the village, the
individual is subject to discharge from employment or dismissal from office.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
39.86(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   If not otherwise specified herein, no person shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   File any incomplete or false return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his books, records, papers and federal and state income
tax returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (5)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
books, records, papers or federal and state income tax returns relating to the
income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the Tax
Administrator;
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator authorized hereby;
      (8)   Give to an employer false information as to his true name, correct
Social Security number, and residence address, or fail to promptly notify an
employer of any change in residence address and date thereof;
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (E)   Any person who violates any of the provisions in §
39.98(D) shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §
39.98(A).
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 39.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make an incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or
interest imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees and remit such withholding tax to the Tax Administrator;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her or his or her employer's books, records,
papers or federal income tax returns;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her or his or her employer's books, records, papers or federal income tax
returns upon order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's or such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (8)   Willfully give to an employer by an employee false information as
to his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address,
or the failure of such employee to promptly notify an employer of any change in
residence address and date thereof;
      (9)   Failure on the part of any employer to maintain proper records of
employees' residence addresses, total wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or
to knowingly give the Tax Administrator false information;
      (10)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (11)   Willfully fail or willfully refuse to make any payment of the
estimated tax for any year or part of any tax year as required by §
39.26;
      (12)   Fail to cause the tax withheld from the qualifying wages of the
employees pursuant to this chapter to be paid to the municipality in accordance
with the provisions of §
39.22; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter for which
violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on
a first offense and shall be fined not more than $100; on a second offense
within two years after the first offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense; on each subsequent
tax code violation within two years after the first offense such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and punished as provided for
herein.
   (B)   Time limits. All prosecutions under this section must be commenced
within the time specified in Ohio R.C. § 718.12.
   (C)   Failure to receive or procure a return. The failure of any employer or
taxpayer or person to receive or procure a return, declaration or other
required form shall not excuse him or her from making any information return,
return or declaration, from filing such form or from paying the tax.
   (D)   Statute of limitations.
      (1)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and penalties and
interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within three years after
the tax was due or the return was filed, whichever is later.
      (2)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under this chapter
shall be commenced within three years after the commission of the offense,
provided that in the case of fraud, failure to file a return, or the omission
of 25% or more of income required to be reported, prosecutions may be commenced
within six years after the commission of the offense. See Ohio R.C. § 718.12.
   (E)   Failure to file. The failure of any employer, taxpayer or person to
receive or procure a return, declaration or other required form shall not
excuse him or her from making any information return, return or declaration,
from filing such form, or from paying the tax.
   (F)   Person defined. The term PERSON as used in this section shall, in
addition to the meaning prescribed in §
39.21, include in the case of an association or corporation not having any
partner, member or officer within the municipality, any employee or agent of
such association or corporation who can be found within the corporate limits of
the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 39.99) (Ord 4-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 73-11, passed 2-
19-1973; Am. Ord. 2003-O-53, passed 12-22-2003)
CHAPTER 40: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
40.01   Public hearing; deposit required
   
40.02   Development proposal review process
   
40.03   Administrative Enforcement System
   
40.04   Return of village property
   40.05   Identity Theft Policy
§ 40.01   PUBLIC HEARING; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Amount of deposit. Any person who initiates procedures requiring a
public hearing before the Planning Commission, Village Council, Committee of
Village Council or an administrative appeal before the Personnel Advisory and
Appeal Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Housing Board of Appeals, Tax Board of
Review, or any other authorized municipal body, shall deposit in advance the
sum of $200 to defray the expenses thereof.
   (B)   Refunds and deficiencies. If the costs of the proceedings are less
than the deposit, the village shall refund the difference to the person
depositing the same. If the costs of the proceedings are in excess of the
deposit, then the person initiating the proceedings shall pay the village the
amount of the deficiency. Upon refusal or failure of such person to pay the
deficiency, the village shall take the necessary legal action to collect the
same.
   (C)   Employee appeals. If an employee files and appeal to the Personnel
Advisory and Appeal Board from an administrative action of the appointing
authority and prevails before such Board, then the deposit shall be refunded to
such prevailing employee.
   (D)   Indigency; waiver. Upon proof of indigency on the part of any person
the village shall waive the required deposit and grant such person the right to
such public hearing or appeal, as the case may be, under the following
conditions.
      (1)   The determination of indigency shall be made by the Mayor subject
to review by Council. The Mayor shall investigate the financial status of each
person claiming indigency and may require the person to disclose the records of
public or private income sources and property, otherwise confidential.
      (2)   If the determination of indigency cannot be made by the Mayor
within the time limits required by the appropriate code section for such public
hearing or appeal, the municipal body shall proceed with the public hearing or
appeal. If it is subsequently determined that the person was not indigent, then
such person shall pay the costs of such proceedings.
      (3)   An INDIGENT PERSON is defined as one who is a pauper or destitute
of means except such as derived from public charity.
(Ord. 85-O-2, passed 1-14-1985)
§ 40.02   DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL REVIEW PROCESS.
   The review of development proposals will take place in accordance with the
steps outlined in this section throughout the duration of the Economic
Development Coordinator's tenure with the village, unless otherwise amended by
Village Council.
   (A)   Development review process - flow chart.
      Step 1:   All proposals submitted to Mayor.
      Step 2:   Mayor submits proposals to Economic Development Coordinator
(EDC).
      Step 3:   EDC presents proposals to Village Council in Executive Session.
Note: At this point, Council reserves right to reject any or all proposals.
      Step 4:   Mayor will introduce live proposals to the Council and Planning
and Development Committee will refer item to Planning Commission.
      Step 5:   Review by Planning Commission with subsequent recommendation to
Council.
      Step 6:   Planning Commission sends item to appropriate Council Committee
(s) for their review and recommendation.
      Step 7:   Items return with recommendations to Village Council for vote.
   (B)   Development review process.  
      Step 1. All proposals for development, or proposals which may affect
development, must be submitted to the Mayor in writing.
      Step 2. The Mayor will send all such proposals identified in Step 1, to
the Economic Development Coordinator (EDC). EDC will review the proposal(s) and
work with developer to compile information sufficient to make a meaningful
presentation to Village Council and the Planning Commission, and to make a
recommendation to Council as to what appropriate future actions should be taken
regarding the proposal. Members of Village Council will be kept informed of all
proposals received; however, proposals will not be forwarded to Council until
sufficient details have been received from developer. SUFFICIENT DETAILS is
defined as the following:
         (a)   A description of the proposed project, including uses, required
parking and access, and an indication of how the proposed use does or does not
conform to applicable Building and Zoning Code provisions;
         (b)   A listing of the individuals/entities making up a project team;
         (c)   Estimated costs and the identification of potential sources and
uses of funds;
         (d)   A time frame for the project;
         (e)   A general site plan; or
         (f)   Any marketing data which provides support and justification for
the project.
      Step 3.
         (a)   The EDC will compile the information, present all proposals to
members of the Village Council in an executive session, and make a
recommendation of further action on each proposal. Council members reserve the
right at this point to reject any or all proposals.
         (b)   In the event that multiple proposals are submitted for a site,
the EDC will review each proposal with Council members in an executive session
of Council. The best proposal(s) will be selected for further consideration and
will proceed to Council.
         (c)   1.   Council members should consider proposals on the basis of
the following criteria:
               a.   The financial ability of the developer to carry out the
project;
               b.   Developer's experience in similar projects;
               c.   The feasibility, appropriateness and/or marketability of
the proposed use;
               d.   The proposal's ability to increase the village's tax base;
and
               e.   Project's time schedule.
            2.   These items are not listed in any priority, and the list is
not meant to be all-inclusive.
Note: The time frame for proposal review during these first three steps is
contingent upon the ability of developer to provide sufficient details.
      Step 4. Following a decision by Council in executive session, the Mayor
will introduce live proposals to the Council Review Process. Village Council
will refer the item to the Planning Commission or to the appropriate Council
Committee.
      Step 5.
         (a)   The Planning Commission, as an advisory body to Council, shall
preview the proposal(s) presented and make a recommendation to Village Council.
The Planning Commission must commence review of the proposal within seven days
of its referral from Village Council. Development projects which are consistent
with current zoning will be deemed as being consistent with the overall plan of
the village, and therefore, will not require a public hearing. When zone
changes or variances are not required, Planning Commission must produce a
recommendation for Council within 21 days of the initial presentation of the
project to the Planning Commission or the proposal shall be presumed to have
been approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   When projects do require zone changes or variances, the
developer may have to submit additional information for the zoning matter to be
considered. If a public hearing is necessary, current zoning legislation
requires notification 20 days in advance of a public hearing. Therefore, the
overall time frame for Planning Commission's recommendation concerning the
proposal shall not exceed 45 days or the proposal shall be presumed to have
been approved by the Planning Commission.
      Step 6. Within the time frame(s) specified in Step 5, the Planning
Commission shall forward a recommendation to the appropriate Council Committee
(s). The Council Committee(s) shall consider the proposal and make a
recommendation to full Council within 21 days of receiving the referral from
the Planning Commission or the proposal shall be presumed to have been approved
by the Council Committee(s).
      Step 7. From Committee, the item will return, with recommendations, for a
vote by the full Council.
(Ord. 90-O-21, passed 5-23-1990)
§ 40.03   ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Criminal prosecution has been the traditional method for adjudication
and enforcement of the Lincoln Heights Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution is often ineffective in deterring Lincoln Heights
Code of Ordinances violations or securing timely correction of the violations;
and criminal prosecution for Lincoln Heights Code of Ordinances violations is
time-consuming, resource draining and frequently fails to address community
concerns.
   (C)   A system of administratively assessed civil fines offers a more
effective way to obtain compliance, can be more responsive to citizen
complaints and reduce the Lincoln Heights Mayor’s Court caseload, while not
imposing additional costs on the taxpayers.
   (D)   An administrative enforcement system for hearing cases and assessing
civil fines will provide a more effective and efficient method for the village
to respond to Lincoln Heights Code violations and is established.
   (E)   Neither the Village of Lincoln Heights, the federal government, the
State of Ohio, nor any village, federal or state agency or political
subdivision is liable for a civil fine imposed.
(Ord. 97-O-17, passed 4-17-1997)
§ 40.04 RETURN OF VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Council members, officials, administrators and contractors are
responsible for all of the property issued to them or in their possession and
control.
   (B)   Council members, officials, administrators, and contractors must
return all property immediately upon request, termination of employment, or
expiration of term of office.
   (C)   The Village may withhold from the paycheck(s) of the Council members,
officials, administrators, and contractors the cost of any items that are not
immediately returned, and may also take all appropriate action to recover or
obtain reimbursement for the property.
(Ord. 2008-O-11, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 40.05 IDENTITY THEFT POLICY.
   The Village Council has determined that it is in the best interests of the
residents of the Village to establish an identity theft policy to ensure the
Village is operating in compliance with the federal “Red Flag Rule” that goes
into effect on August 1, 2009.
(Res. 2009-R-22, passed 7-27-2009)
CHAPTER 41: DISASTER AND EMERGENCY PLANNING
Section
   
41.01   Purpose and declaration of policy
   
41.02   Mayor’s power during emergency
   
41.03   Effective date and termination of emergency powers
   
41.04   Selection of Director of Disaster Services
   
41.05   General duties of Director of Disaster Services
   
41.06   Emergency operations plan
   
41.07   Other specific powers and duties of the Director
   
41.08   Operational organization
   
41.09   Emergency procurements
   
41.10   Severability
 
   
41.99   Penalty
§ 41.01   PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   This chapter is enacted to set out and clarify the authority of the village,
its officers and employees with regard to emergency and disaster situations. It
is intended to grant as broad a power as permitted by statutory and
constitutional authority.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.02   MAYOR’S POWER DURING EMERGENCY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, when the Mayor
determines in the Mayor's sole discretion that a state of public emergency
exists within the village, the Mayor may by proclamation declare a state of
emergency, govern the village by proclamation and exercise through the
assistance of the Director of Disaster Services and in consultation with the
Village Attorney, all emergency powers including, but not limited to, all of
the following:
   (A)   The power to direct emergency response activities by village
departments including, but not limited to, the Police and Fire Departments, and
by such emergency services personnel as the Mayor may designate or appoint;
   (B)   The power to execute contracts for the emergency construction or
repair of public improvements, when the delay of advertising and public bidding
might cause serious loss or injury to the village, upon following the
procedures of §
41.09;
   (C)   The power to purchase or lease goods and services that the Mayor deems
necessary to the emergency response or for the repair of village facilities or
both upon following the procedures of §
41.09;
   (D)   The power to lease real property, or structures, or both, that the
Mayor deems necessary for the continued operation of village government;
   (E)   The power to promulgate rules and orders to implement and clarify the
Mayoral proclamation exercising emergency power; and
   (F)   The power to delegate any or all of these duties to the Director of
Disaster Services as defined in §
41.04.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.03   EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY POWERS.
   Proclamations, rules, and orders issued pursuant to §
41.02 shall be effective upon issuance and shall remain in effect until
withdrawn by the Mayor or issuing authority. However, those proclamations,
rules, and orders shall be withdrawn by the Mayor or issuing authority, and
those persons acting pursuant to §
41.02 shall cease to exercise emergency powers at such time as the conditions
giving rise to the emergency cease.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.04   SELECTION OF DIRECTOR OF DISASTER SERVICES.
   The Village Manager or the Village Manager's designee shall serve as the
Village Director of Disaster Services.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.05   GENERAL DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF DISASTER SERVICES.
   (A)   The Director of Disaster Services shall be responsible for the
performance and supervision of performance of all duties in connection with
coordinating and carrying out the village's role in furnishing services in the
event of major natural or manmade disaster, including but not limited to
floods, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, tidal waves,
epidemics, hazardous substance or nuclear power plant accidents or incidents,
insurrections, riots, looting, and persistent violent civil disobedience, which
threaten the public peace, health, and safety or which damage and destroy
public or private property of the village.
   (B)   The Director of Disaster Services shall assist the Mayor or the
Mayor's designee in the exercise of emergency powers under §
41.02.
   (C)   The Director of Disaster Services shall act in coordination with the
state and other governmental agencies as may be necessary to plan and implement
a joint jurisdiction emergency planning and disaster services plan and mutual
aid arrangements.
   (D)   The Director of Disaster Services shall consult with the Village
Attorney in the planning and exercise of emergency powers.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.06   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   The Director of Disaster Services shall recommend for adoption by the
Village Council, upon approval by the State Office of Disaster Services, an
emergency operations plan for the village and recommend for adoption by the
Village Council mutual aid plans and agreements which are deemed essential for
the plan. Such mutual aid plans may authorize the employment by the county and
other cities within the county of the Village Director of Disaster Services as
area coordinator for mutual aid. The Director of Disaster Services shall make
continuing studies of the need for amendments and improvements in such plans.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.07   OTHER SPECIFIC POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Disaster Services shall:
   (A)   Request the Mayor when appropriate to declare a state of emergency as
provided in §
41.02;
   (B)   Control and direct emergency training activities;
   (C)   Maintain a liaison with other municipal, state, regional and federal
disaster services agencies;
   (D)   Marshal, after the declaration of a state of emergency, all necessary
personnel, equipment and supplies from any department of the village to aid in
carrying out the emergency operations plan;
   (E)   Prepare under the direction of the Mayor and in consultation with the
Village Attorney, all necessary emergency proclamations, rules, and orders,
pursuant to §
41.02 and implementing the emergency operations plan;
   (F)   Coordinate the drafting of proposed mutual aid agreements;
   (G)   Serve as an operations officer for any joint or mutual emergency
operation administration; and
   (H)   Assume other emergency responsibilities as assigned by the Mayor of
Village Council.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.08   OPERATIONAL ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The operational disaster services organization of the village shall
consist of municipal officers and employees who may be designated by the
Village Manager and all volunteer workers.
   (B)   Plans of organization shall substantially conform to recommendations
of the federal government and the State Office of Disaster Services.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.09   EMERGENCY PROCUREMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of the code to the contrary, the Mayor,
upon declaration of a state of emergency by proclamation as provided in §
41.02, may authorize the Village Manager or the Village Manager's designees to
procure by purchase or lease, such goods and services as are deemed necessary
for the village emergency response effort.
   (B)   This emergency procurement of goods or services may be made in the
open market without filing a requisition or estimate and without advertisement
for immediate delivery or furnishing.
   (C)   A full written account of all emergency procurement made during this
emergency, together with a requisition for the required materials, supplies,
equipment, or services, shall be submitted to or provided by the Village
Manager within 30 days after their procurement, and shall be open to public
inspection for a period of at least one year subsequent to the date of the
emergency purchases.
   (D)   The Village Manager shall, within three months of the conclusion of
the emergency, formally communicate these emergency expenditures in a full
written account to the Village Council.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.10   SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable, and if any
section, sentence, clause or phrase of the chapter shall for any reason be held
invalid or unconstitutional or if the application of this chapter to any person
or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional, such decisions shall not
affect the validity of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, and phrases
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 41.99   PENALTY.
   The violation of a proclamation of an emergency, a subsequent proclamation
exercising emergency powers, a rule, or order, which proclamation, rule or
order is issued pursuant to §
41.02, or the violation of any order or directive given by a peace officer or
designated emergency services personnel pursuant to authority resulting from §
41.02 is a first degree misdemeanor and punishable accordingly.
(Ord. 2001-O-50, passed 11-13-2001)
CHAPTER 42: CHARTER AMENDMENTS
Section
   
42.01   Qualifications
   
42.02   Terms of office
   
42.03   Organization of Council
   
42.04   Stipends, expenses
   
42.05   Council procedures, meetings
   
42.06   Council procedures, ordinances
   
42.07   Chief of Police
   
42.08   Appropriation ordinance
   
42.09   Recall
   
42.10   Charter Revision Committee
   
42.11   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
42.12   Public Improvement Commission
   
42.13   Term limits
§ 42.01   QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any qualified resident elector who has been a resident of the
municipality for a continuous period of time not less than one year preceding
the election shall be eligible to serve as a member of Council. An elector who
is delinquent on taxes due the village or who has been convicted of a felony,
treason, or who has been imprisoned for a felony shall not be qualified to
serve as a member of Council. Council members shall not hold any other public
office, or any other employment with the Municipality of Lincoln Heights except
that of a notary public, or a member of the National Guard or a Reserve in the
Armed Forces. All members of Council must be willing to accept and receive
ongoing training in laws or other regulations pertaining to local, county,
state, national or federal affairs.
   (B)   A member shall remain a qualified domicile resident elector of the
municipality during a member's term of office. A member who ceases to be a
qualified domicile resident elector shall automatically have his or her seat
declared vacant.
(Ord. 98-O-8, passed 2-23-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Qualifications, see Charter §
2.02
§ 42.02   TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Members of Council shall be elected for four-year overlapping terms. At the
first municipal election after the adoption of this Charter, November 2, 1993,
each of the four candidates receiving the largest number of votes shall be
elected to four-year terms of office, and each of the three candidates
receiving the next highest number of votes shall be elected to a two-year term
of office. Thereafter, beginning November, 1995, all members of Council shall
be elected to a four-year term of office. All Council terms shall begin on the
first day of January after the municipal election and Council shall meet on the
same date for the purpose of organizing.
(Ord. 97-O-37, passed 7-30-1997; Am. Ord. 99-O-84, passed 12-27-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Terms of office, see Charter §
2.03
§ 42.03   ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL.
   On the first day of January after the municipal election, Council shall meet
for purpose of organizing. At this meeting, the elected members shall subscribe
to the oath of office set forth in
Article IX of this Charter, and shall proceed by majority vote to elect one of
its members to serve as Mayor and another as Vice Mayor. Each shall serve a
term of two years. This Council shall appoint a Clerk who shall perform duties
as prescribed in this Charter or by general law or in ordinance. The Clerk
shall serve at the pleasure of Council and as secretary to the Mayor.
(Ord. 97-O-37, passed 7-30-1997; Am. Ord. 99-O-85, passed 12-27-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Organization of Council, see §
2.04
§ 42.04   STIPENDS, EXPENSES.
   (A)   The stipend of members of Council shall be per annum, payable monthly
regardless of the number of Council meetings held during each month. Council by
ordinance shall establish the stipend for the Mayor, Vice Mayor, and members of
Council.
   (B)   The stipend of members of Council, including the Mayor and Vice Mayor,
shall not exceed the following amounts without the approval of the voters:
      (1)   Mayor - $5,500;
      (2)   Vice Mayor - $4,500; and
      (3)   Council Members - $3,500.
   (C)   Attendance at regularly scheduled Council meetings, unless excused in
accordance with the Rules of Council, is mandatory for payment of the monthly
stipend. Minutes of Council will verify attendance.
   (D)   Upon prior approval of Council, members shall be reimbursed for
expenses incurred in accordance with the Rules of Council, while on municipal
business.
(Ord. 98-O-7, passed 2-23-1998; Am. Ord. 98-O-66, passed 9-1-1998; Am. Ord. 98-
O-81, passed 11-9-1998, Am. Ord. 99-O-33, passed 5-20-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Stipends, expenses, see Charter §
2.08
§ 42.05   COUNCIL PROCEDURES, MEETINGS.
   Council shall meet regularly at least twice in every month except the month
of August. Standing Committees of Council shall meet regularly at least once in
every month except the month of August. Special meetings may be called by the
Mayor or a majority of Council members. Whenever practicable, every member
shall be given at least 12 hours notice of the special meeting. All meetings
shall be public, except that Council may recess to a closed session for the
purpose of discussing any matter which would tend to defame or prejudice the
reputation of any person provided that the subject to be discussed is expressed
in the motion calling for such session, and the final action on the subject
shall not be taken by Council until the matter is placed on the regular agenda.
(Ord. 97-O-49, passed 7-30-1997; Am. Ord. 98-O-63, passed 9-1-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Council procedures, meetings, see Charter §
2.11(a)
§ 42.06   COUNCIL PROCEDURES, ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Action of Council shall be by ordinance, resolution or motion. Every
action of a general and permanent nature or granting a franchise, or levying a
tax, or appropriating money, or contracting a debt, or for the purchase, lease
or transfer of public property, or establishing an offense and fixing a penalty
therefor shall betaken by ordinance or resolution. All other action may be by
motion. Any member of Council may, at a regular or special meeting, introduce
any ordinance, resolution or motion.
   (B)   Except on procedural motions, voting shall be by roll call and the
ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal. The affirmative votes of at
least a majority of the membership shall be required for every action.
   (C)   Every ordinance shall be fully and distinctly read on three different
days, unless each member has previously been furnished a copy thereof, in which
case it can be read by title only. By a vote of five members, Council can
suspend the rule requiring the reading of an ordinance on three different days.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in the Charter, each ordinance approved
by the Council will be effective at the end of 30 days following passage, or
such longer period as is determined by the Council. If the Council determines
that an ordinance should be passed on an emergency basis, the reasons for
declaring such ordinances to be an emergency measure shall be set forth in one
section of the ordinance which section shall be passed only upon an aye and nay
vote upon a separate roll call with at least five of the members voting
affirmatively. No ordinance prescribing rates and charges by a public utility,
or granting a franchise, or levying a tax, shall be passed as an emergency
measure. An emergency ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
passage, or at such later time as it may specify.
   (E)   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing. No ordinance
shall contain more than one subject which shall be clearly expressed in its
title. The opening clause of the ordinance shall be "Be it ordained by the
Council of Lincoln Heights, Ohio . . ." Any ordinance which repeals or amends
an existing ordinance or part of the Municipal Administrative Code shall set
out in full the ordinance, sections or subsections to be repealed or amended.
(Ord. 97-O-48, passed 7-30-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Council procedures, ordinances, see Charter §
2.11(d)
§ 42.07   CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Manager with the approval of
Council. The Chief of Police shall be a member of the administrative service
under the supervision and control of the Village Manager pursuant to §
3.03 of the Charter.
(Ord. 98-O-6, passed 2-9-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see Charter §
3.11
§ 42.08   APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   If Council fails to adopt a temporary appropriation ordinance by December 31
of the current year, the amounts appropriated for current operation for the
current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a
month-to-month basis, with all items in it prorated accordingly. But no later
than the first day of April of the current year, a permanent appropriation
ordinance shall be adopted. Council shall provide for a public hearing upon
such permanent appropriation ordinance, and may amend such ordinance at any
time. Adoption of an appropriation ordinance shall constitute appropriations of
the amount specified therein as expenditures from the funds indicated.
(Ord. 97-O-40, passed 7-30-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Appropriation ordinance, see Charter §
4.09(b)
§ 42.09   RECALL.
   The voters of Lincoln Heights shall have the power to recall and remove from
office any member of Council before the expiration of his/her office. A recall
may be started by the filing with the Clerk of Council a petition signed by
qualified voters equal in number to 25 percent of those who cast ballots in the
preceding municipal election, requesting that a Councilmember, named in the
petition, be removed from office. Such petition shall contain a specific
statement of not less than twenty-five words and not more than two hundred
words of the particular grounds upon which the removal of such person is
sought. Provided, however, that the question of the removal of any
Councilmember from office shall not be submitted to the voters until such
Councilmember has served for at least one year of the term during which he/she
is sought to be recalled. If the Clerk finds the petition sufficient, he or she
shall certify it to the Board of Elections of Hamilton County, to be placed on
the ballot at the next succeeding municipal or general election occurring not
less than 90 days thereafter, the question: “Shall (name of Councilperson) be
recalled from office in the Municipality of Lincoln Heights? Yes___ No___.” If,
at the election, a majority of the votes cast on the question shall be in favor
of recall, the official shall forthwith retire from office, and the resulting
vacancy filled in a manner prescribed in this Charter; provided however, no
member of Council who has been recalled pursuant to Article VI of this Charter
shall be eligible for reappointment to any seat in Council during the same term
of the Councilmanic office from which he or she has been recalled.
(Ord. 97-O-41, passed 7-30-1997; Am. Ord. 2008-O-24, passed 7-7-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Recall, see Charter §
6.01
§ 42.10   CHARTER REVISION COMMITTEE.
   There shall be a Charter Revision Committee which shall consist of three
members who are electors of the municipality, appointed by the Mayor with the
concurrence of Council for staggered five-year terms. At the time of the first
appointment under this Charter, two members shall be appointed for five-year
terms and one member shall be appointed for a three-year term. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for five years. Members shall serve without compensation.
The Committee shall adopt such rules as it deems necessary for the performance
of its function. The Committee shall periodically review the Charter and make
written reports to Council recommending amendments to the Charter to be
submitted to the voters.
(Ord. 97-O-12, passed 4-17-1997; Am. Ord. 98-O-64, passed 9-1-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Charter revisions Committee, see Charter §
9.04
§ 42.11   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals, consisting of five
electors of the village appointed by the Council. One of the members shall be a
member of the Planning Commission, whose term shall coincide with such member's
Planning Commission term; one of the members shall be appointed for a two-year
term; two of the members shall be appointed for a one-year term and one member
shall be appointed for a four-year term. Thereafter, each member shall be
appointed for a four-year term. All rules, regulations, procedures,
requirements necessary for the operations of the Board shall be established by
ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear appeals of persons or
companies affected by the decision of the Building Inspector and/or zoning
regulations.
(Ord. 98-O-65, passed 9-1-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-O-36, passed 7-23-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Appeals, see Charter §
11.04
§ 42.12   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT COMMISSION.
   Section
11.07 is hereby repealed and the Public Improvements Commission abolished.
(Ord. 98-O-62, passed 9-1-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Public Improvements Commission, see Charter §
11.07
§ 42.13 TERM LIMITS.
   (A)   The Council has been presented with a petition for submission of
proposed amendment to Charter (“Petition”) signed by 10% of the electors of the
village requesting that a certain amendment to the village charter adding
Section 2.15 be submitted to the electors of the village, a copy of which is
attached to Resolution 2014-R-47 as Exhibit A.
   (B)   Council has reviewed the petition and finds it to be legally
sufficient for purposes of submitting the proposed charter amendment to the
electors of the village.
   (C)   Pursuant to Sections 8 and 9 of Article XVIII of the Ohio
Constitution, Council for the village hereby submits to the electors of the
village the question contained in the petition regarding a proposed charter
amendment at the next regular municipal election if one shall occur not less
than 60 nor more than 120 days after its passage; otherwise, said question
shall be submitted to the electors of the village in a special election to be
called and held within the time aforesaid.
(Res. 2014-R-47, passed 8-25-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
52.   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 52: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
52.01   Composition; compensation
   
52.02   Duties and responsibilities
§ 52.01 COMPOSITION; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Public Works Department of the village shall be composed of four
full-time members and two part-time members as follows:
      (1)   Full-time Director of Public Works.
      (2)   Full-time equipment operator.
      (3)   Full-time equipment operator.
      (4)   Full-time maintenance worker.
      (5)   Part-time custodian.
      (6)   Part-time code enforcer.
   (B)   The head of the Public Works Department shall be the Director of
Public Works, who shall be appointed by the Village Manager and shall serve at
the pleasure of the Village Manager.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall fill all vacancies and make all
promotions within the Public Works Department, subject to the approval of the
Village Manager.
   (D)   Council shall establish the compensation for the Director of Public
Works and all members of the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2021-O-2, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 52.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Public Works Department shall perform those functions customarily
performed by public works departments already established in other Ohio
political subdivisions. The general duties of the Public Works Department shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: maintenance of all village owned
parks and other village owned properties, repairing potholes, maintaining an
organized work area, maintaining a partnership with village consultants to
manage capital improvement projects, identifying infrastructure needs,
maintaining village owned signs, accounting for the maintenance and use of all
heavy equipment, street sweeping, snow removal, collection of brush and bushes,
managing and leading all community cleanup projects, and developing a
maintenance and management plan for the Memorial Athletic Field.
(Ord. 2021-O-2, passed 5-10-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
   
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES; MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
   
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
   
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; TOY VEHICLES
   
76.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
   
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scope; compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Signal lights
   
70.22   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.23   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.24   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.25   [Reserved]
   
70.26   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.27   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.28   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.29   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.30   Obstructed or defaced signs
   
70.31   Village Manager to place and maintain traffic-control devices
   
70.32   Safety zones
   
70.33   Turning markers
   
70.34   Crosswalks
   
70.35   Regulation of traffic
   
70.36   Snow emergency
   
70.37   Street fetes
   
70.38   Play streets
   
70.39   Quiet zones
   
70.40   Directing traffic
   
70.41   Marking of vertical clearance
 
   
70.98   Fine schedule
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 95
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.08
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 93
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.07
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see Ohio R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see Ohio R.C. § 5577.14
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see Ohio R.C. §
4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in Ohio R.C. §
4501.01 shall apply to this title and the penal laws of the municipality. For
the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the Village Council of the municipality in which the street or highway
is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CENTERLINE. The line of the center of a roadway when not marked, otherwise
the yellow line indicating the boundary between portions of a highway devoted
to traffic in opposite directions.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in a chauffeured
limousine. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(ORC § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. These terms shall
have the same meanings as set forth in Ohio R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Village Council has placed signs indicating
no crossing.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HOUSE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, with or without motive power, designed or
equipped for human habitation, including but not limited to vehicles known as
mobile homes, campers, truck campers, trailer homes, or house trailers.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power cranes and other
equipment used in construction work, and not designed for or employed in
general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery, well-drilling
machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle other than a tractor having a seat or saddle
for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than three
wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” “autocycle,” “cab-
enclosed motorcycle,” or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be capable of being
pedaled, and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one brake
horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater
than 20 miles per hour on a level surface.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof, with the right of purchase on performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee, lessee, or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purposes of this code.
   PARKING or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.214, 4511.22,
4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31,
4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39,
4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441,
4511.451, 4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50,
4511.511, 4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771,
4511.78, or 4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D),
or 4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.01 through
4511.76 for which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains
the provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), or (3) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under Ohio R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in Ohio R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS known as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state, county,
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided SCHOOL BUS does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and SCHOOL BUS does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A family day-care home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A family day-care home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in Ohio R.C. § 5511.01
to erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4511.65,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
1/4 of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated by
official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle, in, upon, or by which
any person or property may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except that
VEHICLE does not include any motorized wheelchair, any electric personal
assistive mobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in Ohio R.C.
§ 4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   VIOLATE. To do anything declared to be unlawful, or otherwise forbidden, or
to fail or neglect or refuse to do anything declared to be a duty or otherwise
enjoined to be done.
(ORC § 4511.01) (1995 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02   SCOPE; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   The provisions of the traffic code are intended to apply to all
traffic and to all operators not specifically excepted, and nothing in the
traffic code shall be construed to exempt from its provisions and penalties
either:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles owned or used in the service of the United
States or of the State of Ohio or any subdivision thereof; or
         (b)   Persons propelling pushcarts.
      (2)   Every person riding, driving, or leading any animal or animals on a
roadway shall be subject to the provisions of the traffic code applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which by their nature can have
no application.
      (3)   All provisions relative to the operating, parking, standing, or
movement of vehicles, animals, and to the movement of pedestrians, apply on all
the highways of the village, except as specifically limited.
   (B)   Compliance with order of police officer.
      (1)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction
of any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
         (b)   A violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
         (c)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(3)(d) and (B)(3)(e) of this
section, a violation of division (B)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (d)   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(e) of this section, a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact
finds by proof beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the
offender was fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
         (e)   1.   A violation of division (B)(2) of this section is a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as
trier of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
               a.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property; and/or
               b.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B)(2) of this section and division (B)(3)(e)1. of this section
applies, the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s
conduct for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B)
(2) of this section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in Ohio
R.C. §§ 2929.12 and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the
following:
               a.   The duration of the pursuit;
               b.   The distance of the pursuit;
               c.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
               d.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or
stop signs during the pursuit;
               e.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
               f.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
               g.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during
the pursuit;
               h.   The number of moving violations the offender committed
during the pursuit;
               i.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of
division (A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this
section, the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found
guilty of an offense under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as
described in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving
privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of this section as set forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender’s
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
      (5)   As used in this section:
         MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2743.70.
         POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
(ORC § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (1995 Code, § 70.02)
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03   EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.03) (1995 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04   EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.011, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and Ohio R.C. §§
5577.01 through 5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01
through 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(ORC § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(ORC § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28,
4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37,
4511.38, and 4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do
not apply to a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a
motor vehicle in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner,
deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the
duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon
the highway.
(ORC § 4511.042) (1995 Code, §§ 70.04, 70.041)
§ 70.05   PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(ORC § 4511.05) (1995 Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06   PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON
FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance; or
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with an animal-drawn vehicle, a ridden or led animal, herded animals,
a pushcart, a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use, a bicycle with motor attached, a motor-driven cycle with a motor
which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower, an agricultural tractor, or
farm machinery, except in the performance of public works or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.051) (1995 Code, § 70.06)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07   USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(ORC § 4511.08) (1995 Code, § 70.07)
§ 70.08   NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Revised Code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(ORC § 2935.28) (1995 Code, § 70.08)
§ 70.09   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE
AT DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(ORC § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10   THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(ORC § 4511.65) (1995 Code, § 72.50)
§ 70.11   OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(ORC § 4549.05) (1995 Code, § 73.26)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, or township or joint police district, in which
the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(ORC § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under Ohio R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under Ohio R.C. § 4921.25
(B)(4) or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(ORC § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20   OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(ORC § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under Ohio R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location,
regardless of the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale
facility, if either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal; or
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 180.
(ORC § 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(ORC § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC § 4549.081(C)) (1995 Code, § 70.10)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see Ohio R.C. § 4511.11
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
Ohio R.C. § 4511.10
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.21   SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(ORC § 4511.13) (1995 Code, § 70.11)
§ 70.22   SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(ORC § 4511.131) (1995 Code, § 70.12)
§ 70.23   AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle, the signals
are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a vehicle detector to detect
the presence of the bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways; and
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.132) (1995 Code, § 70.121)
§ 70.24   PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(ORC § 4511.14) (1995 Code, § 70.13)
§ 70.25   [RESERVED]
§ 70.26   UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.211
and 4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.16) (1995 Code, § 70.15)
§ 70.27   ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.17) (1995 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.28   UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under Ohio R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC § 4511.18)
§ 70.29   SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 109.17(A)(1), (A)(12),
(A)(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer; or
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(ORC § 4511.031)
§ 70.30   OBSTRUCTED OR DEFACED SIGNS.
   No provision of the traffic code requiring signs shall be enforceable
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
the sign required is not in proper position and sufficiently clear to be
recognized by an ordinarily observant person. The provisions of any section
which does not state that signs are required shall be effective without them.
(1995 Code, § 70.17)
§ 70.31   VILLAGE MANAGER TO PLACE AND MAINTAIN TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Manager to place and maintain traffic-
control devices required by the traffic code, and he or she is authorized to
place and maintain such other traffic-control devices as he or she shall deem
necessary for the proper control of traffic.
(1995 Code, § 70.18)
§ 70.32   SAFETY ZONES.
   The Village Manager is empowered to establish safety zones of such kind and
character and at such places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection
of pedestrians.
(1995 Code, § 70.19)
§ 70.33   TURNING MARKERS.
   Where traffic conditions are such as to require it, the Village Manager is
authorized to place turning markers within or at the entrance to an
intersection, and such markers may, at intersections where unusual traffic
conditions prevail, direct movements to be made otherwise than as provided in
the applicable provisions of
Chapter 72 of this code of ordinances. All operators of vehicles shall be
governed by such markers.
(1995 Code, § 70.20)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.34   CROSSWALKS.
   The Village Manager is authorized to establish crosswalks at such places as
he or she shall deem necessary, and shall designate them by appropriate marks
or signs.
(1995 Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.35   REGULATION OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever, because of the construction, repair, reconstruction, or
resurfacing of a street or because of the laying of underground installations
in a street, it is deemed necessary by the Village Manager, he or she may
temporarily close the street adjacent thereto to vehicular traffic, may
temporarily alter the normal movement of vehicular traffic of the street
adjacent thereto by making them one-way streets, or temporarily reroute truck
traffic over parkways. Whenever a street is closed or the normal movement of
traffic over a street is altered by the Village Manager pursuant to this
section, the Village Manager shall cause appropriate traffic signs to be
erected indicating that the street is closed or the normal movement of traffic
has been altered.
(1995 Code, § 70.22)
§ 70.36   SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES shall mean
through streets, or portions of through streets, designated by official signs
on one or both sides thereof, installed by order of the Village Manager. The
Village Manager is authorized and directed to designate such streets as snow
emergency routes which for the safety or convenience of the public and the
accommodation of traffic should be kept on and clear in times of snow
emergency.
   (B)   When snow, sleet, freezing rain, or other weather conditions cause or
appear likely to cause, in the judgment of the Village Manager, slippery or
hazardous conditions which might lead to serious congestion or hazard, the
Village Manager may declare a snow emergency. The Village Manager shall also
declare the termination of such snow emergency as soon as conditions permit.
(1995 Code, § 70.23)
§ 70.37   STREET FETES.
   (A)   With the consent of the owner or occupants of the abutting property,
the Village Manager may, where the public travel will not be greatly interfered
with thereby, close any highway or portion thereof to vehicular traffic and
permit the holding thereon of fetes, bazaars, or similar events for religious,
charitable, civic, patriotic, or fraternal purposes.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle on any highway or portion thereof
closed to traffic pursuant to this section while such highway or portion
thereof is so closed.
(1995 Code, § 70.24)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.38   PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Village Manager, or the Safety-Service Director when authorized by
the Village Manager, shall have authority in cases and during hours when public
travel will not be greatly interfered with thereby, to close any highway or
portion thereof to vehicular traffic, except that requiring access to or egress
from premises not accessible except by such highway. Such authority shall be
exercised only in cases where it is necessary or expedient to do so in order to
provide safe places in which the children or residents of the neighborhood may
play, and such play streets shall be properly marked while so restricted.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle on such restricted highway while it
is so restricted, except as permitted by this section.
(1995 Code, § 70.25)
§ 70.39   QUIET ZONES.
   (A)   The Village Manager may designate zones of quiet on any highway within
250 feet of any hospital, school, court, church, asylum, or other like
institution.
   (B)   When any such zone is so designated by official traffic signs, no
person therein shall blow a horn or a whistle or make or cause any outcry or
any avoidable noise or clamor likely to disturb persons within such zone.
(1995 Code, § 70.26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.40   DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   Police officers and members of the Fire Department are authorized in the
event that a fire or other emergency condition or the safeguarding or
expediting of traffic so require, to direct traffic otherwise than as the
traffic code specifically provides. The direction of traffic may be by word or
audible signal, by gesture or visible signal, or by any combination thereof.
(1995 Code, § 70.27)
§ 70.41   MARKING OF VERTICAL CLEARANCE.
   Where the vertical clearance between an overhead structure and any point of
the roadway surface underneath that structure is less than 14 feet, the
clearance height shall be indicated on an advance warning sign and additional
protection should be provided by markings on the structure itself.
(1995 Code, § 70.28)
§ 70.98   FINE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following fine schedule applies when a traffic citation is issued
and it is not a citation to court or is not registered for court.
   (B)   The current fine schedule shall be established by ordinance from time
to time and is incorporated into this section as though fully set forth herein.
(1995 Code, § 70.98) (Ord. 76-O-13, passed 4-12-1976; Am. Ord. 78-O-25, passed
9-25-1978; Am. Ord. 78-O-30, passed 10-24-1978; Am. Ord. 78-O-32, passed 10-24-
1978; Am. Ord. 91-O-33, passed 12-11-1991; Am. Ord. 93-O-21, passed 9-22-1993;
Am. Ord. 96-O-19, passed 8-12-1996; Am. Ord. 97-O-55, passed 8-25-1997; Am.
Ord. 2007-O-14, passed 1-22-2007; Am. Ord. 2015-O-5, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 70.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99(B) through (G).
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; or
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.99)
   (C)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor, other than
a minor misdemeanor, shall be imprisoned for a definite term or fined, or both,
which term of imprisonment and fine shall be fixed by the court as provided in
this section.
      (1)   Terms of imprisonment for misdemeanors shall be imposed as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than six months;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, nor more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   Fines for a misdemeanor shall be imposed as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $1,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $250.
      (3)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a minor misdemeanor
shall be fined not more than $150.
(1995 Code, § 70.99) (Am. Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 7-20-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.19
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.20
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
   
71.08   License plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.10   Prohibited acts
   
71.11   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.12   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.13   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.14   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.15   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.16   Display of license
   
71.17   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.18   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.19   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.20   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.21   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.22   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.25   Definitions
   
71.26   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.27   Prohibited acts
   
71.28   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.29   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.30   Criminal offenses
   
71.31   Application of federal regulations
   
71.32   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Village motor vehicle license tax, see §
39.60
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see Ohio R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see Ohio R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see Ohio R.C.
§§ 4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01   DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the front and rear of the motor vehicle a
license plate that bears the distinctive number and registration mark assigned
to the motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any
county identification sticker and any validation sticker issued under Ohio R.C.
§§ 4503.19 and 4503.191, except as follows:
         (a)   A manufacturer of motor vehicles or dealer therein, the holder
of an in transit permit, and the owner or operator of a motorcycle, motorized
bicycle or moped, motor-driven cycle or motor scooter, autocycle, cab-enclosed
motorcycle, manufactured home, mobile home, trailer, or semitrailer shall
display a license plate on the rear only.
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is issued two license plates shall display
the validation sticker only on the rear license plate, except that a commercial
tractor that does not receive an apportioned license plate under the
international registration plan shall display the validation sticker on the
front of the commercial tractor.
         (c)   An apportioned vehicle receiving an apportioned license plate
under the international registration plan shall display the license plate only
on the front of a commercial tractor and on the rear of all other vehicles.
      (2)   All license plates shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs their visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary license placard or windshield sticker
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under Ohio R.C. § 4503.182, and
no operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary license
placard in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either in the rear window or
on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle, or fail to display the
windshield sticker in plain view on the rear window of the motor vehicle. No
temporary license placard or windshield sticker shall be covered by any
material that obstructs its visibility.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer shall only issue a ticket, citation, or
summons, or cause the arrest or commence a prosecution, for the failure to
display a license plate in plain view on the front of a parked motor vehicle if
the officer first determines that another offense has occurred and either
places the operator or vehicle owner under arrest or issues a ticket, citation,
or summons to the operator or vehicle owner for the other offense.
(ORC § 4503.21(A), (B))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by Ohio R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(ORC § 4503.11(A))
   (C)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under Ohio
R.C. § 4507.01.
(ORC § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(ORC § 4549.11(A)) (1995 Code, § 73.29)
   (E)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(ORC § 4549.12(A)) (1995 Code, § 73.30)
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b),
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section by failing to
display a license plate in plain view on the front of a motor vehicle as
required under division (A) of this section while the motor vehicle is
otherwise legally parked is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and may be fined not
more than $100. A person who is subject to the penalty prescribed in this
division (F)(1)(b) is not subject to the charging of points under Ohio R.C. §
4510.036.
         (c)   The offense established under division (A) of this section is a
strict liability offense and Ohio R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of this offense as a strict liability offense shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC § 4503.21(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (F)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of Ohio R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(ORC 4501.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC § 4549.11(B))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4549.12(B)) (1995 Code, § 71.01)
§ 71.02   IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC § 4503.05)
§ 71.03   OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under Ohio R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in Ohio R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC § 4503.236)
§ 71.04   OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction
or dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517,
sell at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an
Ohio certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the
motor vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title
assignments that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an
odometer disclosure statement that complies with Ohio R.C. § 4505.06 and
subchapter IV of the “Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act,” 86 Stat.
961 (1972), 15 U.S.C. § 1981; or
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(ORC § 4505.18)
§ 71.05   DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a COMMERCIAL CAR, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in Ohio R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate
on the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4549.18)
§ 71.06   USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark; or
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in Ohio
R.C. § 4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of Ohio R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that
section shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC § 4549.08) (1995 Code, § 73.27)
§ 71.07   OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays two placards, except as provided ln Ohio R.C. § 4503.21, issued by
the Director of Public Safety that bear the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4549.10) (1995 Code, § 73.28)
§ 71.08   LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle upon any street, nor shall any
vehicle be parked upon any street, on which license plates are required to be
displayed by law, unless the license plates legally registered and issued for
such vehicle are so displayed thereon, securely fastened in a vertical position
right side up, and not covered, obscured, or concealed by any part or accessory
of such vehicle or by any other substance.
(Am. Ord. 80-O-6, passed 3-24-1980; Am. Ord. 2002-O-23, passed 4-22-2002)
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle upon any street, nor shall any
vehicle be parked upon any street, on which license plates are displayed any
license numbers for any period of time which has expired or any license plates
issued in another state for which the period of time has expired.
(1995 Code, § 73.25) (Am. Ord. 2002-O-23, passed 4-22-2002)
Penalty, see § 73.99
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.10   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled; or
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal or duplicate
thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s statement
required under Ohio R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4507.30) (1995 Code, § 71.05)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see Ohio R.C.
§ 4510.33
§ 71.11   PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507.
(ORC § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under Ohio
R.C. § 4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under Ohio R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under Ohio R.C. §
4507.05(A) and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not
attained the age of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under Ohio
R.C. § 4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18
years, may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private
property used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between
the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the
parent, guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial
driver’s license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the
permit holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in Ohio R.C. §
4511.19(A).
(ORC § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of the time
restrictions established in this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for such a violation
or for causing the arrest or commencing a prosecution of a person for such a
violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER of a probationary license holder includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother- in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. MOVING
VIOLATION does not include a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4513.263 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or
ordinance regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or
load limitations, vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
4513.263.
(ORC § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J)) (1995 Code, § 71.06)
§ 71.12   LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license issued
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not
be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or Ohio R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and Ohio R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined
up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and Ohio R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
130.99(F)(3) or Ohio R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of
up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If, within
three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, unless and
until the person surrenders to the Registrar all valid licenses issued to the
person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The Registrar shall
report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The Registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority. No
person shall be permitted to have more than one valid license at any time.
(ORC § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of Ohio R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty
in the military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the
peace corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the
United States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the
period of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter,
provided such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person
commenced the person's active duty or service. This section does not prevent a
person or the person's spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in Ohio R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under Ohio R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive,
upon condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to
prove lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(ORC § 4507.04) (1995 Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.13   EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4507.321) (1995 Code, § 71.08)
§ 71.14   RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code;
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509; or
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this
section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any Deputy Registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(ORC § 4511.203) (1995 Code, § 71.09)
§ 71.15   SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code shall not exceed the period of
suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of the
provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this code is
substantially equivalent.
(ORC § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. §
4510.02(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under Ohio R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under Ohio R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
(ORC § 4510.15) (1995 Code, § 71.10)
§ 71.16   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license
on or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s
not having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4507.35) (1995 Code, § 71.11)
§ 71.17   PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4507.36) (1995 Code, § 71.12)
§ 71.18   DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.21 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person's license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit imposed under Ohio R.C. §
4506.10(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(ORC § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to § 130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding
§
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC § 4510.04) (1995 Code, § 71.13)
§ 71.19   OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under Ohio R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a
commercial driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under Ohio R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be
in the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver's
or commercial driver's license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not
be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or Ohio R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and Ohio R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined
up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and Ohio R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
130.99(F)(3) or Ohio R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of
up to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender's
last violation of Ohio R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of Ohio R.C. § 4510.12, this section,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years,
and if the offender's license was expired for more than six months at the time
of the offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's
driver license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC § 4510.12) (1995 Code, § 71.13)
§ 71.20   DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under Ohio R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under Ohio R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a
violation of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the
suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender's vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in Ohio R.C. Chapter
2929, a fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; or
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization of the offender's
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender's vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle
that is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is
assigned or transferred and Ohio R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the
court may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by
publications of the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from
any fine so imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division Ohio R.C.
§ 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor's
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.021, if the court
grants limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this
section, the privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the
offender must display restricted license plates, issued under Ohio R.C. §
4503.231, on the vehicle driven subject to the privileges, except as provided
in Ohio R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
Ohio R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver's license under Ohio R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued
a driver's license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver's license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section; or
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of three, ten, or
30 consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)
(3) of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A)
of this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(ORC § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC § 4510.04) (1995 Code, § 71.13)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.21   DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR
CANCELLATION; DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver's or commercial driver's license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident's operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle
within this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period
of the suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this
municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be
operated by another person in the municipality, during the period in which the
person is required by Ohio R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of
financial responsibility for a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof
of financial responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(ORC § 4510.16)
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under
this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the order of suspension resulted from the failure of the alleged
offender to respond to a financial responsibility random verification request
under Ohio R.C. § 4509.101(A)(3)(c) and that, at the time of the initial
financial responsibility random verification request, the alleged offender was
in compliance with Ohio R.C. § 4509.101(A)(1) as shown by proof of financial
responsibility that was in effect at the time of that request.
(ORC § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.22   FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident's operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.19, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.25   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following:
      (1)   100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
      (2)   210 liters of breath; or
      (3)   100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986,” 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in Ohio R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including, but not limited to, a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act,” 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. Part
1308, as amended; and
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations; or
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in division R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The GROSS VEHICLE
WEIGHT RATING of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Part
172, Subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. Part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1)
and (E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for
purposes other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of Ohio R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of Ohio R.C. § 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of Ohio R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of Ohio R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.33 or 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state; or
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. Means the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in division R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability
of a current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor
vehicles under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
(ORC § 4506.01)
§ 71.26   USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(ORC § 4506.011)
§ 71.27   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
or
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by Ohio R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(ORC § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under Ohio R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under Ohio R.C. § 4506.12
that appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(ORC § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of Ohio R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(ORC § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and Ohio R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, whether in this section or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.28   PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under Ohio
R.C. § 4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under Ohio R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of Ohio R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle
for these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible
unit of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise; or
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(ORC § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986,” 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle; and
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until
the person is at least 21 years of age.
(ORC § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and Ohio R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply.
The designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.29   PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.30   CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under Ohio R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. §
4511.191, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings; or
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(ORC § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by Ohio R.C. § 4506.17.
(ORC § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under Ohio R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the
troopers of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any
person who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in
a violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4506.
(ORC § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
Ohio R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see Ohio R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.31   APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. Part 383, Subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4506.19)
§ 71.32   EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers; and
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction; or
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division(A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 4506.20)
§ 71.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC §§ 4506.99, 4507.99) (1995 Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.02   Driving through safety zone
   
72.03   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.04   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.05   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.06   Driving to left of center line
   
72.07   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.08   Hazardous zones
   
72.09   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.10   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.11   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.12   Divided roadways
   
72.13   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.14   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.15   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.16   Turn and stop signals
   
72.17   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.20   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.21   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.22   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.23   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.24   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.25   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.26   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.27   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.28   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.29   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.30   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.31   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.35   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.36   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.37   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.38   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.39   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.40   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.41   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.42   Jaywalking
   72.43   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
Grade Crossings
   
72.45   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.46   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.47   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.48   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
   
72.49   Railroads crossing highways at grade
Prohibitions
   
72.55   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.56   Boarding, leaving or occupying vehicle while in motion; while stopped
   
72.57   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.58   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.59   Obstructing traffic
   
72.60   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle with caution
   
72.61   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.62   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.63   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.64   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.65   [Reserved]
   
72.66   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.67   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.68   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.69   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.70   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.71   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.72   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
School Buses
   
72.80   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.81   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.82   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.83   School bus inspection
   
72.84   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.85   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.86   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.87   School bus marking
   
72.88   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.89   Occupant restraining device for operator
Vehicle Restrictions on Public Streets; Trucks Routes 
   
72.95   Definitions
   
72.96   Truck and motor vehicle traffic restricted on certain streets
   
72.97   Noise or vibration limiting device
   
72.98   Inspection as to unlawful load
   
72.99   Signs
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see Ohio R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01   LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic; or
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.25) (1995 Code, § 72.01)
§ 72.02   DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone.
(1995 Code, § 72.02)
§ 72.03   VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other 1/2 of
the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly 1/2 as is reasonably
possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.26) (1995 Code, § 72.03)
§ 72.04   RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction.
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in Ohio R.C. § 5511.02, or a
highway with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to
the vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.27) (1995 Code, § 72.04)
§ 72.05   PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.28) (1995 Code, § 72.05)
§ 72.06   DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.29) (1995 Code, § 72.06)
§ 72.07   PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in Ohio R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.30) (1995 Code, § 72.07)
§ 72.08   HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in Ohio R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
Ohio R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.31) (1995 Code, § 72.08)
§ 72.09   ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.32) (1995 Code, § 72.09)
§ 72.10   RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety;
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation;
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs; and
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.33) (1995 Code, § 72.10)
§ 72.11   SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.34) (1995 Code, § 72.11)
§ 72.12   DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.35) (1995 Code, § 72.12)
§ 72.13   RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules.
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.36) (1995 Code, § 72.13)
§ 72.14   U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.37) (1995 Code, § 72.14)
§ 72.15   STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties; or
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.38) (1995 Code, § 72.15)
§ 72.16   TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time but is not required to
be continuous. A bicycle operator is not required to make a signal if the
bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and a signal shall not be given when the
operator’s hands are needed for the safe operation of the bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.39) (1995 Code, § 72.16)
§ 72.17   HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle may give a right turn signal by extending the right hand
and arm horizontally and to the right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.40) (1995 Code, § 72.17)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.20   RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.41) (1995 Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.21   RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.42) (1995 Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.22   RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.43) (1995 Code, § 72.22)
§ 72.23   STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(ORC § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 4511.09; and
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of Ohio R.C. § 4511.43(A) and Ohio R.C. § 4511.46, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to
the driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is
placed in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian
crossing such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in
place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying Ohio R.C. §
4511.43(A) and Ohio R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER and PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS.
Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
(ORC§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   (1)   No person shall drive or propel a vehicle, or ride, lead, or
drive an animal of the horse or cattle kind within or across a sidewalk area,
public park, or recreation area, immediately adjacent to a street or highway
except at a permanent, or temporary driveway or bridle path.
      (2)   However, where the coal hole for a property is located within a
sidewalk area, the owner of the property may apply to the Village Manager for a
special permit authorizing the backing of coal trucks onto the sidewalk for the
sole purpose of dumping coal or coke into such coal hole. If the Village
Manager on recommendation of the Director of Public Works shall be satisfied
that such operation can be performed without danger to the sidewalk, he or she
may issue the permit applied for, for a period of not more than one year. Every
such permit shall be conditioned on the agreement of the property owner to
assume full responsibility for any damage that may occur to the sidewalk for
use by coal trucks and to save and to hold the village harmless of any and all
liability, claims, or expenses of any kind caused by, or growing out of, any
such use of the sidewalk. A fee of $0.50 shall be charged for each application
to cover the cost of inspection and supervision.
      (3)   This provision shall not prohibit driving on the sidewalk area when
necessary to avoid a temporary obstruction in the roadway but in such case the
operators of the vehicle shall exercise due care for pedestrians using the
sidewalk area.
(1995 Code, § 72.23)
§ 72.24   RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.44) (1995 Code, § 72.24)
§ 72.25   PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.441) (1995 Code, § 72.25)
§ 72.26   RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC § 4511.45) (1995 Code, § 72.26)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary license placard issued under
Ohio R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(ORC § 4511.454)
§ 72.27   FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with Ohio
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when
directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all
vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a
funeral procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully
enters an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may
continue to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding
any traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.451) (1995 Code, § 72.27)
§ 72.28   PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
Ohio R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.452) (1995 Code, § 72.28)
§ 72.29   PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in Ohio R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.46) (1995 Code, § 72.29)
§ 72.30   RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.47) (1995 Code, § 72.30)
§ 72.31   RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.48) (1995 Code, § 72.31)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.35   PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.49) (1995 Code, § 72.35)
§ 72.36   PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.50) (1995 Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.37   PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The legislative authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in Ohio R.C.
§ 4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The
permit shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in
the permit, in any calendar year. The legislative authority also may specify
the locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the legislative authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.51) (1995 Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.38   PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.511) (1995 Code, § 72.38)
§ 72.39   PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(ORC § 4511.491) (1995 Code, § 72.39)
§ 72.40   INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.481) (1995 Code, § 72.32)
§ 72.41   OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this traffic code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet; and
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
or
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10; and
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50; or
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(ORC § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.42   JAYWALKING.
   (A)   No person shall walk, cross, or pass from one side of a street to the
other without so doing at an intersection so designated for such walking,
crossing, or passing.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 72.40) (Ord. 80-O-4, passed 3-24-1980; Am. Ord. 84-O-32, passed
12-19-1984)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.43 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property on
sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 90 pounds excluding any property
being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(ORC § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.45   STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013 and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.61) (1995 Code, § 72.45)
§ 72.46   DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered;
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train;
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed;
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC § 4511.62) (1995 Code, § 72.46)
§ 72.47   VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in Ohio
R.C. § 4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under Ohio R.C. § 4511.63(B) at
which vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this
section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(ORC § 4511.63) (1995 Code, § 72.47)
§ 72.48   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.64) (1995 Code, § 72.48)
§ 72.49   RAILROADS CROSSING HIGHWAYS AT GRADE.
   (A)   No directing officer or operator of any railroad locomotive, railroad
cars, or railroad train shall direct the operation of or operate the same in
such a manner as to interfere unreasonably with the use of a street for
purposes of travel.
   (B)   The blocking of a street by a locomotive, railroad car, or railroad
train for a period of more than five minutes shall be a prima facie evidence of
a violation of this section.
(1995 Code, § 72.49)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.55   OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.70) (1995 Code, § 72.55)
§ 72.56   BOARDING, LEAVING OR OCCUPYING VEHICLE WHILE IN MOTION; WHILE
STOPPED.
   (A)   Manufactured home. No person shall occupy any travel trailer or
manufactured or mobile home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a
street or highway.
   (B)   Penalty. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.701)
   (C)   Boarding or leaving vehicle in motion. No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
   (D)   Boarding or leaving stopped vehicle. No operator or passenger of any
motor vehicle shall leave or enter such vehicle, or otherwise open any door of
same on the side next to a moving lane of traffic unless such movement can be
made without danger of causing an accident by reason of a passing vehicle,
lawfully using the highway, striking the open door or the person entering or
leaving, or swerving to avoid same.
   (E)   Passengers on vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall ride on any vehicle on any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion,
nor shall any operator knowingly permit the same to be done.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty, or riding within a truck body in space designed
for merchandise.
(1995 Code, § 72.56)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.57   DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(ORC § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(ORC § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.71(B)) (1995 Code, § 72.57)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under Ohio R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender
who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost
any such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under Ohio R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer
may collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in Ohio R.C.
§ 2929.28.
(ORC § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in Ohio
R.C. § 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(ORC § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.58   DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles, except that no local
authority may require that bicycles be operated on sidewalks.
(ORC § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(ORC § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B)) (1995 Code, § 72.58)
§ 72.59   OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall obstruct or otherwise disrupt the orderly flow
of traffic on a street or highway, whether by use of a vehicle or otherwise.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) above shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (B)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.712) (1995 Code, § 72.59)
§ 72.60   FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(ORC § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, vehicle used by the
Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance
with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle that is
displaying the appropriate visual signals by means of flashing, oscillating, or
rotating lights, as prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 4513.17, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, vehicle used by the Public
Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with
R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle from the duty to
drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the
highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(ORC § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or Ohio R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor
vehicle in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition
to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the
usual amount imposed for the violation.
(ORC §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))  (1995 Code, § 72.60)
§ 72.61   DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.73) (1995 Code, § 72.61)
§ 72.62   PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(ORC § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(ORC § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.82(C)) (1995 Code, §§ 72.62, 72.621)
§ 72.63   TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United
States Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time
of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the
child properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a
child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under Ohio R.C. § 5104.015, that
is required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped
with seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the
motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United
States Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time
of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the
child properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards or in an occupant restraining device as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in
this state under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who
otherwise would be required to be restrained under this section has a physical
impairment that makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical, provided that the person
operating the vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in
accordance with any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted
on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $120. (Ord. 2015-O-7, passed 6-1-2015)
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by Ohio R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(ORC § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)) (1995 Code, § 72.63)
§ 72.64   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car, or
truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966,” 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR, and COMMERCIAL CAR. Have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as defined
in Ohio R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2307.91, but does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract
or another agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following.
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person
who is required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat. Division
(B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is an employee of the
United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service, during
any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of an automobile to
deliver mail or newspapers to addressees. Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this
section do not apply to a person who has an affidavit signed by a physician
licensed to practice in this state under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or a
chiropractor licensed to practice in this state under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4734
that states that the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in Ohio R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort
action that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device. Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car; and
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4513.263) (1995 Code, § 72.64)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.63
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.89
§ 72.65   [RESERVED].
§ 72.66   OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears. As used in this section, EARPHONES means any
headset, radio, tape player, or other similar device that provides the listener
with radio programs, music, or other recorded information through a device
attached to the head and that covers all or a portion of both ears. EARPHONES
does not include speakers or other listening devices that are built into
protective headgear.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person operating equipment for use in the maintenance or repair
of any highway; or
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.84) (1995 Code, § 74.642)
§ 72.67   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01, and
shall not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance
with any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other
similar vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with Ohio R.C. §
4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see Ohio R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see Ohio R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.68   OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. TRACTION ENGINE or TRACTOR, as used in this section, applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(ORC § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.69   CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out.”
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.70   SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.71 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
based on the same conduct. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 and is also convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance based
on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
    No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.72 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person's driver's license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
R.C. § 4511.205 does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a
violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same
conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of R.C. § 4511.205 and is also adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same conduct, the two
offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.80   REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of Ohio R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When
a license is suspended under this section, the court or Mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in Ohio R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red
visual signals meeting the requirements of Ohio R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of
whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term
does not include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective
of its color, lights or markings.
(ORC § 4511.75) (1995 Code, § 72.65)
§ 72.81   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes, but is not limited
to, any temporary license placard issued under Ohio R.C. § 4503.182 or
substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated Ohio R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the operator shall report the license plate number and general
description of the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law
enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged
violation occurred. The information contained in the report relating to the
license plate number and to the general description of the vehicle and the
operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation may be supplied by
any person with first-hand knowledge of the information. Information of which
the operator of the school bus has first-hand knowledge also may be
corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law
enforcement agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the
identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
If the identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is
established, the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall
establish probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for
the violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(ORC § 4511.751) (1995 Code, § 72.651)
§ 72.82   RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 4511.76, or Ohio R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764,
4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 4511.76(C), (E), (F)) (1995 Code, § 72.66)
§ 72.83   SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 4511.761, or Ohio R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764,
4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under Ohio R.C. § 4511.763.
(ORC § 4511.761) (1995 Code, § 72.67)
§ 72.84   SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by Ohio R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop”
and “school bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under Ohio R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by Ohio R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following.
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by Ohio R.C.
§ 4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.771
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by Ohio R.C. § 4511.761 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under Ohio R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 4511.762, or Ohio R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764,
4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under Ohio R.C. § 4511.763.
(ORC § 4511.762) (1995 Code, § 72.68)
§ 72.85   LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.763) (1995 Code, § 72.69)
§ 72.86   REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of Ohio R.C. §
4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 4511.764) (1995 Code, § 72.70)
§ 72.87   SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 4511.77, or Ohio R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762,
4511.764, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under Ohio R.C. § 4511.763.
(ORC § 4511.77) (1995 Code, § 72.71)
§ 72.88   FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761,
4511.764 and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be
equipped with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display
to the front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing
amber lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing
red lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.771) (1995 Code, § 72.72)
§ 72.89   OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4513.263,
installed for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.772) (1995 Code, § 72.73)
VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC STREETS; TRUCK ROUTES 
§ 72.95   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL CAR. Any motor vehicle having motor power designed and used for
carrying merchandise or freight or used as a commercial tractor.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other motor vehicles, or designed or used for drawing another motor
vehicle while carrying a portion of such other motor vehicle or its load, or
both.
   MOTOR BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven
passengers and used for the transportation of passengers; and every motor
vehicle, auto-for-hire or funeral car designed and used for the transportation
of persons for compensation.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except road
rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power cranes, and other equipment
used in construction work and not designed for or employed in general highway
transportation, well drilling machinery, ditch digging machinery, farm
machinery, threshing machinery, hay bailing machinery, and agricultural
tractors and machinery used in the production of horticultural, agricultural,
and vegetable products.
   OPERATOR. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
motor vehicle.
   PASSENGER CAR. Any motor vehicle designed and used for carrying not more
than seven persons.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property with another and separate motor vehicle, so that in operation a part
of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power designed or used for carrying
property or persons wholly on its own structures and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and includes any such vehicle when formed by or operated as a
combination of a semi-trailer and a vehicle of the dolly type such as that
commonly known as a trailer dolly, except a house trailer.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailer and semi-trailers, designed and
used to carry property, whose gross weight, when added to the load carried or
capable of being carried, is in excess of 20,000 pounds.
   VEHICLE. Everything on wheels or runners, except vehicles operated
exclusively on rails or tracks or from overhead electric trolley wires, baby
carriages and toy vehicles, and vehicles belonging to any police department,
municipal fire department, volunteer fire department, or salvage company
organized under the laws of this state or used by such department or company in
the discharge of its functions, or any vehicle belonging to and used in the
discharge of the functions of the Village of Lincoln Heights, Ohio.
(1995 Code, § 72.80) (Ord. 76-O-21, passed 6-28-1976; Am. Ord. 96-O-12, passed
6-10-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-O-45, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 72.96   TRUCK AND MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate
any trucks over Shepherd Lane within the boundaries of the Village of Lincoln
Heights without restriction or limitation as to length, width, tractor trailer
configuration or number of axles and subject to all restrictions established by
the Ohio Department of Transportation or United States Department of
Transportation for trucks operating as defined by 23 C.F.R. 658.5 during the
following times of day:
      (1)   Monday through Friday from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. the following
day; or
      (2)   From 12:00 noon on Saturday to and through 6:00 a.m. the following
Monday.
   (B)   Whoever is convicted for violation of this section shall be fined not
more than $300 for the first offense and for the second and subsequent
offenses, he or she shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days for each violation or both.
(1995 Code, § 72.81) (Ord. 76-O-21, passed 6-28-1976; Am. Ord. 96-O-12, passed
6-10-1996; Am. Ord. 2000-O-45, passed 6-19-2000; Am. Ord. 2001-O-24, passed 4-
23-2001)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.97   NOISE OR VIBRATION LIMITING DEVICE.
   Every motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall, at all times,
be equipped with a muffler, or other device serving a similar noise or
vibration limiting purpose, which shall operate so that no loud noises or
disturbing vibrations result, emanate, or occur from the operation of that
vehicle which disturbs the peace and quiet of a neighborhood or interferes with
the transaction of business or other ordinary pursuits, and no person,
partnership, firm, or corporation shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or
similar device on a motor vehicle on a public street within the boundaries of
the village.
(1995 Code, § 72.82) (Ord. 76-O-21, passed 6-28-1976)
§ 72.98   INSPECTION AS TO UNLAWFUL LOAD.
   Any police officer, having reason to believe that the weight of a vehicle
and load is unlawful, is authorized to require the driver to stop and submit to
a weighing of the same either by means of a portable or stationary scale, and
may require that such vehicle be driven to the nearest public scales. Whenever
an officer, on weighing a vehicle and load, as above provided, determines that
the weight is unlawful, such officer may require the driver to stop the vehicle
in a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is
removed as may be necessary to reduce the gross weight of such vehicle to such
limit as permitted under this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 72.83) (Ord. 76-O-21, passed 6-28-1976)
§ 72.99   SIGNS.
   The Village Manager is authorized and directed to have suitable signs made
and posted on the various public streets within the boundaries of the village,
advising operators of motor vehicles of the restrictions and requirements set
forth in this subchapter, as required by law.
(1995 Code, § 72.84) (Ord. 76-O-21, passed 6-28-1976)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES; MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.011   Implied consent
   
73.012   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.02   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.03   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.04   Possession of an open flask
   
73.041   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Reckless Operation
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
Speed Regulations
   
73.10   Speed limits; radar arrests
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.14   Speed regulations on bridges
Resisting Officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Presenting false name or information to officer
Stopping After Accident
   
73.20   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.21   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.22   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.23   Failure to report accident
   
73.24   Scene of accident; gathering at; leaving
Miscellaneous Offenses
   
73.40   Advertising on vehicles
   
73.41   Repair business from vehicles
   
73.42   Animals
   
73.43   Throwing objects at or from vehicle
   
73.44   Use of alleys
   
73.45   Taxicab cruising
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see Ohio R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01   DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply.
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               B.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the
amount of salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and
salvinorin A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s
blood serum or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of
operating any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person
has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount
so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in
the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them; and
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under Ohio R.C. §
4511.191 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised
by the officer in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or
submission to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply.
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in Ohio R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under Ohio
R.C. § 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, only a
physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an
emergency medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section, or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in Ohio R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in Ohio R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.011, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply.
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h),(A)(1)(I), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties; and
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(I) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(I)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(I) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(I) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless
of when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of
the conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in Ohio
R.C. § 4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under Ohio R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(I) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(I) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in Ohio
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring, with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic
monitoring and continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
Ohio R.C. §4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in
Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if Ohio R.C. § 4510.13 permits the
court to grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited
driving privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that
section requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the
offender must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges
restricted license plates that are issued under Ohio R.C. § 4503.231, except as
provided in division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition
as one of the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the
offender, except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and Ohio R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99(G) or
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege form the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may
grant limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under Ohio R.C. §§
4510.021 and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an
ignition interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period
of suspension as authorized under Ohio R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants
unlimited driving privileges under Ohio R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall
suspend any jail term imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required
under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under Ohio R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in Ohio R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to Ohio R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or Ohio R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2923.16(D) in
the same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in Ohio R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in Ohio R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of
the same term as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined
in Ohio R.C. § 4510.01 applies to this section.
(ORC § 4511.19(A) - (M)) (1995 Code, § 73.01)
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.011 and §
73.012:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM, and
SANCTION have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section;
         (d)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or Ohio R.C. § 2903.08
or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4),
Ohio R.C. § 2903.08(A)(2), or former Ohio R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that
former section, in a case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found
that the offender was under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20, 30,
or 60 days that must be imposed under Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under Ohio R.C. § 4511.19, the
term must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under Ohio R.C. § 4511.19, the
term cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to Ohio R.C.
§§ 2929.21 through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(ORC § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.011   IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to Ohio R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person's whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(ORC §4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The
officer shall give that advice in a written form that contains the information
described in division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the
person. The form shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the
person under arrest and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or
more persons shall witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the
witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must
submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the
arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and,
if the person does not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time
limit, the failure to submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to
the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person's whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
      “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI,
OVUAC, or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      “(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under Ohio R.C. § 4511.191 or
this section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately
forward it to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge. If the arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or
permit or it is not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person
to surrender it to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within
24 hours after the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately
shall forward the license or permit to the court in which the person is to
appear on the charge. Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall
retain it pending the arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken
under Ohio R.C. § 4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under Ohio R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, if the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of
the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the
person refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.012, Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a
prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for
being in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)(5). of this section applies, that
the officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests,
advised the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the
form described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)(5). of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or
tests and the test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.012, Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
who is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under Ohio R.C. § 4511.197 relative
to any suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered
by the report.
(ORC § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in Ohio R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from
the time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon
the arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of
the charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical
test or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the
suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.012 or Ohio R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended
under Ohio R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s
initial appearance on the charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within
five days of the persons’ arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her,
subject to any continuance granted by the court pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
4511.197 regarding the issues specified in that section.
(ORC § 4511.191(D)) (1995 Code, § 73.011)
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see Ohio R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and indigent drivers
alcohol treatment funds, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.012   PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or while the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine contains at least
the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply.
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC § 4511.194) (1995 Code, § 73.03)
§ 73.02   DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by
fatigue, illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive
such vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the
driver’s ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor
vehicle, commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly
permit a driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section
to drive such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 4511.79, or Ohio R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762,
4511.764, or 4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any of those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 4511.79) (1995 Code, § 73.02)
§ 73.03   IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4510.44)
§ 73.04   POSSESSION OF AN OPEN FLASK.
   (A)   No person shall possess, control, or otherwise use an open flask or
container which contains an alcoholic beverage or drink, while operating a
motor vehicle or while in physical control, custody, or possession of a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 73.04) (Ord. 80-O-12, passed 3-24-1980; Am. Ord. 84-O-34, passed
12-19-1984) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.041 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in Ohio R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.05   RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
(ORC § 4511.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of reckless operation, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Upon showing that such person has been
convicted of a prior violation of this or any substantially similar section,
such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(1995 Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 91-O-9.1, passed 3-13-1991)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.15
§ 73.06   RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
(ORC § 4511.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. Upon showing that such person has been convicted of a prior
violation of this or any substantially similar section, such person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(1995 Code, § 73.06) (Ord. 91-O-9.1, passed 3-13-1991)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.15
§ 73.07   OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   Reasonable control. 
      (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor
vehicle or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.202) (Ord. 91-O-9.1, passed 3-13-1991)
   (B)   Coasting on downgrade. No operator of any motor vehicle traveling on a
steep downgrade shall permit the vehicle he or she is driving to proceed with
the gears, clutch, or any portion of the driving mechanism thereof disengaged.
   (C)   Weaving. No person shall drive a vehicle on any highway in a weaving
or zigzag course, unless such irregular course is made necessary by traffic
exigencies.
(1995 Code, § 73.07)
Penalty, see § 73.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.10   SPEED LIMITS; RADAR ARRESTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions(B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means any school chartered under
Ohio R.C. § 3301.16 and any nonchartered school that during the preceding year
filed with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08,
a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying
that the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-
supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from
which it is requesting the establishment of a school zone. SCHOOL also includes
a special elementary school that in writing requests the County Engineer to
create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon receipt of such
written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone at that
location by erecting appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation, or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school
zone for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional
school zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)
(c)3. below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are
bounded by whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the
Director approves as most appropriate.
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction; and/or
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions(B)
(13), (B)(14), (B)(15) and (B)(17) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways with paved
shoulders inside the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions
(B)(15) and (B)(17) of this section;
      (12)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways outside the
municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions(B)(15) and (B)(17)
of this section;
      (13)   Sixty miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at all
times on all portions of rural divided highways;
      (14)   Sixty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at
all times on all rural expressways without traffic control signals;
      (15)   Seventy miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at all
times on all rural freeways;
      (16)   Fifty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at
all times on all portions of freeways in congested areas as determined by the
Director and that are part of the interstate system and are located within a
municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway outerbelt;
      (17)   Sixty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle at
all times on all portions of freeways in urban areas as determined by the
Director and that are part of the interstate system and are part of an
interstate freeway outerbelt.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared pursuant to this section by the
Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to exceed any
of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No person shall be
convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same conduct,
although violations of more than one provision of this section may be charged
in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions(B)(13), (B)(14), (B)(15) and (B)
(17) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(13) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(14) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(17) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(15) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(15) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or Ohio R.C. § 4511.21 declares is
prima facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that
in affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a
prima facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is
alleged, the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a
single act, with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)
(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit
declared or established pursuant to this section or Ohio R.C. § 4511.21 by the
Director or local authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this
section. If the court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or Ohio R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a
judgment of conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under
division (D) of this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a),
(B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit
declared or established pursuant to, this section or Ohio R.C. § 4511.21, it
shall then consider whether the evidence supports a conviction under division
(D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
Ohio R.C. § 4510.036.
(ORC § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Outside urbanized areas, as designated in accordance with 23
U.S.C. § 101, and outside of a business or urban district.
(ORC § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in Ohio R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4511.90.
(ORC § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, Ohio R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; or
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, Ohio R.C. § 4511.21, or
any provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, Ohio R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor
vehicle faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the
municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the
municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a school zone during recess or
while children are going to or leaving school during the school’s opening or
closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine
of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
(ORC § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J). A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one
of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(b) and (K)(2)
(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, Ohio R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
or
         (c)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (J)
(2) of this section, Ohio R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC § 4511.211(F))
   (L)   Radar arrests. The driver of any motor vehicle which has been checked
by radar, or by any electrical or mechanical timing device to determine the
speed of the motor vehicle over a measured distance of the highway and found to
be in violation of any of the provisions of this section may be arrested until
a warrant can be obtained, provided such officer has observed the recording of
the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio microwaves, electrical, or
mechanical timing device, or has received a radio message from the officer who
observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio microwaves,
electrical, or mechanical timing device, provided, in case of an arrest based
on such a message, the radio message has been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle was recorded and the arresting officer is furnished
a description of the motor vehicle for proper identification and the recorded
speed.
(1995 Code, § 73.10)
Penalty, see § 73.99
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see Ohio R.C. §
4511.21(H) through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see Ohio R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11   SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of Ohio R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and
local authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.22)
   (E)   Where signs have been erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction, drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
(1995 Code, § 73.11)
§ 73.12   EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in Ohio R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(ORC § 4511.24) (1995 Code, § 73.12)
§ 73.13   STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by Ohio R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through
(B)(9) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly
accelerating from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima
facie lawful speeds shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(ORC § 4511.251) (1995 Code, § 73.13)
§ 73.14   SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this traffic code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.23)
RESISTING OFFICER
§ 73.15   PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title.
      (2)   No person shall interfere with any person charged under any
provision of this Title with the enforcement of the law relative to public
highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
(1995 Code, § 73.15)
§ 73.16   PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4513.361) (1995 Code, § 73.16)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.20   FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six
months of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by
this division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(ORC § 4549.02) (1995 Code, § 73.20)
§ 73.21   STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six
months of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by
this division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(ORC § 4549.021) (1995 Code, § 73.21)
§ 73.22   ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(ORC § 4549.03) (1995 Code, § 73.22)
§ 73.23   FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4509.74)
§ 73.24   SCENE OF ACCIDENT; GATHERING AT; LEAVING.
   (A)   Gathering at scene of accident.
      (1)   No driver of any vehicle shall proceed to the scene of an accident
or other emergency so as to interfere with the progress of vehicles of the
police or other village department proceeding thereto; nor shall the driver of
any vehicle stop or park vehicles in the vicinity thereof.
      (2)   Pedestrians shall not gather or assemble, so as to interfere with
or impede police officers or other persons in performing their duties or in
rendering proper service at the scene of the accident or other emergency or for
the purpose of advertising or offering any service for hire.
      (3)   No person shall thereat solicit gainful employment of any nature,
or otherwise interfere with or impede traffic on the streets or the proper and
efficient rendition of service to persons or property involved in, or affected
by, such accident.
      (4)   This section shall not be construed as applying to ambulances,
clergymen, or physicians and their vehicles, vehicles of a public utility
company, or commercial vehicles that are responding to an express request from
one of the parties involved in such accident, or in response to a request from
the Police Department.
   (B)   Leaving scene of accident.
      (1)   No person who has been the driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident with another vehicle or some other object shall leave the scene of
such accident without contacting a police officer for purposes of supplying
such officer with the details of the accident.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(1995 Code, § 73.23) (Ord. 80-O-7, passed 3-24-1980; Am. Ord. 84-O-33, passed
12-19-1984)
Penalty, see § 73.99
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
§ 73.40   ADVERTISING ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No person shall operate or park on any highway any vehicle for the
primary purpose of displaying advertising. However, in the case of public
undertakings, or undertakings sponsored by charitable, benevolent, or religious
organizations, the Village Manager shall be authorized to issue temporary
permits for such advertising display on vehicles where no charge is made for
the use of the vehicle.
      (2)   In granting any such permits, the Village Manager may impose such
limitations and restrictions as may be conducive to the public welfare.
   (B)   Distributing cards and stickers.
      (1)   No person shall place or affix or cause to be placed or affixed in
or on any vehicle parked or standing on a highway or any public property being
used for parking purposes, any card, ticket, advertisement, or paper.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation whose name appears on any such
card, ticket, advertisement, or paper as the owner or maker of or dealer in the
things advertised shall be deemed prima facie to have caused the distribution
of such card, ticket, advertisement, or paper.
(1995 Code, § 73.40)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.41   REPAIR BUSINESS FROM VEHICLES.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle shall use such vehicle or permit the
same to be used on the streets and public places of the village for the
manufacture or repair of shoes, clothing, furniture, metal ware, tools, or
other articles of personal or household use.
(1995 Code, § 73.41)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.42   ANIMALS.
   (A)   Droves of animals. No person shall drive or cause to be driven any
drove of animals on or through any highway or public ground unless a permit so
to do has first been obtained from the Village Manager.
   (B)   Horses or cattle on highway. No person shall negligently permit or
suffer an animal of the horse or cattle kind to run away or to be at large on a
highway.
(1995 Code, § 73.42)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.43   THROWING OBJECTS AT OR FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously throw a stone or other substance
or shoot a missile at or from a railway car, train, locomotive, motor bus, or
other motor vehicle, or at or from a steam vessel or watercraft on any of the
waters within or bordering on this state.
(1995 Code, § 73.43)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.44   USE OF ALLEYS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle in an alley unless such vehicle shall
have a minimum clearance of six inches on each side as measured between the
side of the vehicle and the building line.
(1995 Code, § 73.44)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.45   TAXICAB CRUISING.
   No person shall drive a taxicab through the streets without passengers in
such a manner that one point is passed more than once within ten minutes, or,
with or without passengers, in such manner as to retard or interfere with
traffic.
(1995 Code, § 73.45)
Penalty, see § 73.99
Cross-reference:
   Taxicabs, see
Ch. 117
§ 73.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is set forth shall be subject to the penalty section set forth in
§
70.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
73.43 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than six months,
or both.
(1995 Code, § 73.99) (Am. Ord. 84-O-35, passed 12-19-1984)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke, gas or noise; excessive operation of engine
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.40   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.41   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.42   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.43   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.44   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.45   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.46   Load limits
   
74.47   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.48   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.49   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.50   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.51   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
74.52   Sides projecting material
   
74.53   Rear projecting material
   
74.54   Deadening noises
Prohibited Equipment
   
74.55   Television sets in view of driver
   
74.56   Police or fire radio communication equipment
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see Ohio R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see Ohio R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see Ohio R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01   UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.02(A), (H))
   (C)   Nothing contained in the traffic code shall be construed to prohibit
the use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicles not inconsistent
with the traffic code.
   (D)   The provisions of the traffic code with respect to equipment on
vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers, or agricultural tractors except as herein made applicable.
(1995 Code, § 74.01) (Ord. 80-O-9, passed 3-24-1980)
§ 74.02   BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
Ohio R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the
absence of bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or
modified, the maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger
car, multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs; or
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4513.021 do
not apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.021) (1995 Code, § 74.02)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03   LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by Ohio R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the
following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C.
§ 4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall
be operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking
lights as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.03) (1995 Code, § 74.03)
§ 74.04   HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.04) (1995 Code, § 74.04)
§ 74.05   TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.05) (1995 Code, § 74.05)
§ 74.06   RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in Ohio R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.06) (1995 Code, § 74.06)
§ 74.07   SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be
lighted on any such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where
there is sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the
highway at a distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by Ohio R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.07) (1995 Code, § 74.07)
§ 74.08   STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
Ohio R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.071) (1995 Code, § 74.08)
§ 74.09   OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(ORC § 4513.08) (1995 Code, § 74.09)
§ 74.10   RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.09) (1995 Code, § 74.10)
§ 74.11   LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(ORC § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.11)
§ 74.12   LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in Ohio R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by Ohio R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in Ohio R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed
of 25 miles per hour or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25
miles per hour, and shall display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
(SMV). The emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not
less than 500 feet to the rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt
standards and specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV
emblem. The standards and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this
section shall correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those
approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm
machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater
than 25 miles per hour may be operated on a street or highway at a speed
greater than 25 miles per hour provided it is operated in accordance with this
section. As used in this division, MACHINERY does not include any vehicle
designed to be drawn by an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow-moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays a
slow-moving vehicle emblem as specified in division (B) of this section and a
speed identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005,
Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, in
addition to the display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with
a red flashing light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is
used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear. In
addition to the lights described in this division, farm machinery and motor
vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, as permitted by Ohio R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below; or
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to Ohio
R.C. Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in Ohio R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall display
a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and is towing, pulling, or
otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is
the same as the speed identification symbol that is displayed on the
agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, the operator shall
possess some documentation published or provided by the manufacturer indicating
the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer designed the
agricultural tractor to operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(ORC § 4513.11)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
shall be equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year
specified in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.11 APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or
any subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by Ohio R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(ORC § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E)) (1995 Code, § 74.12)
§ 74.13   SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.12) (1995 Code, § 74.13)
§ 74.14   COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.13) (1995 Code, § 74.14)
§ 74.15   TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed,
one near each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such
vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked
vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.14) (1995 Code, § 74.15)
§ 74.16   HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.15) (1995 Code, § 74.16)
§ 74.17   LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it
is equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
Ohio R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided
that such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per
hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.16) (1995 Code, § 74.17)
§ 74.18   NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles
as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4513.182 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, highway maintenance vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by the Department or local
authorities, which shall be equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, but shall not display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating light of any other color, nor to vehicles or machinery
permitted by Ohio R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in Ohio R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park upon
or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(ORC § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(ORC § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B)) (1995 Code, § 74.18)
§ 74.19   STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to Ohio R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.18) (1995 Code, § 74.19)
§ 74.20   FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(ORC § 4513.181) (1995 Code, § 74.20)
§ 74.21   LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution — children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(ORC § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.21)
§ 74.22   FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in Ohio R.C. §§ 4513.03
through 4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any
motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted
and adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.19) (1995 Code, § 74.22)
§ 74.23   BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(ORC § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.23)
§ 74.24   BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the Society of
Automotive Engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(ORC § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.24)
§ 74.25   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(ORC § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.25)
§ 74.26   HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200 feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.21)
   (C)   Unnecessary horn blowing. No person shall sound any signaling device
except when reasonably necessary for the prevention of an accident.
(1995 Code, § 74.26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.27   MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE; EXCESSIVE OPERATION OF
ENGINE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.22)
   (C)   Noisy mufflers. No person shall sell, give away for use on, or install
or use on any motor vehicle operated in the village, any type of muffler that
shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in any manner that will
amplify or increase the noise emitted by the motor of such vehicle.
   (D)   Excessive operation of an engine. No person shall operate or permit
the operation of the internal combustion engine of a private passenger vehicle,
motor bus, or truck for more than three consecutive minutes while that vehicle
is stationary at a terminal, on a public highway, on a private or public
parking lot, or other outdoor locations, except under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the outdoor temperature goes below 32° F;
      (2)   When the operation is necessary in the maintenance or repair of the
engine, or in the safe operation of the vehicle; or
      (3)   When the operation of the engine is necessary to power a loading,
unloading, or processing device.
(1995 Code, § 74.27)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.28   REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.23) (1995 Code, § 74.28)
§ 74.29   WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left- hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or
decal not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign,
poster, or decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as
to conceal the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in
accordance with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle
passenger compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle
glazing without moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.24) (1995 Code, § 74.29)
§ 74.30   TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle
shall have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at
least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(ORC § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99)
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle unless it has tires of rubber or
of some equally resilient material, except in the following cases:
      (1)   Vehicles drawn by animal power; or
      (2)   Road rollers, concrete mixers, platform trucks, traction engines
being transported beyond the limits of the village, and other similar devices,
which may have smooth metallic tires, without cleats, lugs, spikes,
projections, or sharp or uneven parts likely to cause damage to the surface of
the roadway.
(1995 Code, § 74.30)
§ 74.31   REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS
OR REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken, or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(ORC § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of Ohio R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of Ohio R.C. §
4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to
conform to the requirements of Ohio R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted
under that section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by
regular school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a
school district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(ORC § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(ORC § 4513.241(K))
   (D)   Light transmission of sunscreening materials. No sunscreening
materials with less than a light transmission of 50% shall be permitted on
tinted glass or reflectorized materials in a motor vehicle, which is being
operated on the streets of the village.
(1995 Code, § 74.31) (Ord. 95-O-08, passed 6-26-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
§ 74.32   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in Ohio R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.261) (1995 Code, § 74.32)
§ 74.33   INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in Ohio R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a SEAT SAFETY BELT
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in
this state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962,
unless the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the
attachment points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its
front seat. Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such
construction, design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than
4,000 pounds for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state
and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.262) (1995 Code, § 74.33)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter
4501-37
§ 74.34   REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them; and
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under Ohio R.C. § 4511.09.
(ORC § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.34)
§ 74.35   DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle; and
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle; and
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
Ohio R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.28) (1995 Code, § 74.35)
§ 74.36   REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Generally. Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives
upon a highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(ORC § 4513.29)
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99)
   (C)   Parking of vehicles containing explosives. No person shall park a
vehicle containing any explosives on streets or grounds, whether public or
private, within the corporate limits of the village, except in case of accident
or any other emergency involving such vehicle or its driver. In the latter
event, as soon as practicable, the driver of such vehicle shall notify the
police of the location of such vehicle as well as the circumstances surrounding
the accident or emergency.
(1995 Code, § 74.36)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.37   STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(ORC § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38   SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   BUS means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers
that meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver; or
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   BUS does not include a church bus as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   BUS also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service; or
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(ORC § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under Ohio R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and Ohio R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(ORC § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39   AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(ORC § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.40   PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   For regional trips at distances of 150 miles or less from a
facility stated on the application as the applicant’s point of origin.
         (d)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with Ohio R.C. §§ 4513.01 through
4513.37, upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under Ohio R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under Ohio R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is
deemed a nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(ORC § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99) (1995 Code, § 74.40)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.41   LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(ORC § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99)
§ 74.42   ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   Generally. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless
the vehicle is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load
from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that
sand or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction,
or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural
produce or agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the
process of acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans,
bottles, waste paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper,
cartons, boxes, glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary
nature that is susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall
be driven or moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient
cover to prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the
highway.
(ORC § 4513.31)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99)
   (D)   Load shifting. In addition to all other requirements of load
distribution, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on a highway unless
such vehicle is so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise
unbalancing the vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe
operation of the vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 74.42)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.43   TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in Ohio R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle; or
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(ORC § 4513.32)
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and Ohio R.C.
Chapter 5577 do not apply to a person who is engaged in the initial towing or
removal or a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on
a public highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest
site where the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of
this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 5577 or to the nearest qualified repair
facility.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. §
5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or the civil
liability established in Ohio R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person towing or removing a
vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(ORC § 5577.15)
   (D)   Junk motor vehicle. No person shall tow, bring or haul any abandoned
junk motor vehicle or “junk motor vehicle” as defined in §
93.66 into the village. Whoever violates this provision is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense, that person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense that person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(1995 Code, § 74.43) (Ord. 84-O-28, passed 12-19-1984)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.44   WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(ORC § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see Ohio R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.45   OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No traction engine, steam roller, or other vehicle, load, object or
structure, whether propelled by muscular or motor power, not including vehicles
run upon stationary rails or tracks, fire engines, fire trucks, or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal or volunteer fire
department in the discharge of its functions, shall be operated or moved over
or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or culverts in this
municipality upon wheels, rollers or otherwise, weighing in excess of the
weights prescribed in this subchapter or Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq.,
including the weight of the vehicle, object, structure or contrivance and load,
except upon special permission granted as provided by Ohio R.C. § 4513.34 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(ORC § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.46   LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches)Load Limit (in pounds)
3                      450
3-1/2                  450
4                      500
5                      600
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(ORC § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds; or
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula:
            W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the vehicle and load
not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for each foot of
spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle; or
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12-1/2 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 306.30
through 306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(ORC § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12-1/2 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958,” 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(ORC § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
fined as set forth below:
 
Overweight Amount  Fine
1-5,000 lbs.       $119.00
5,001-10,000 lbs.  $219.00
10,001-15,000 lbs. $320.00
15,001-25,000 lbs. $446.00
(Ord. 2015-O-6, passed 6-1-2015)
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in Ohio R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.47   MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within the municipality;
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other state
roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads or portions
or roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order of the
Director of Transportation;
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines;
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways; or
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such state highways
or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to Ohio
R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54;
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles;
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may
prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates;
      (4)   28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates;
      (5)   (a)   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         (b)   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount;
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)(4), and in
division (E) below;
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles; or
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
(ORC § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 5577.05.
(ORC § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 5577.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 74.38)
§ 74.48   STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(ORC § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(ORC § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.49   WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(ORC § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(ORC § 5577.99(E)) (1995 Code, § 74.37)
§ 74.50   LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(ORC § 5577.12)
§ 74.51   WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. A truck transporting coal from the site where it is mined
when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation of timber from the site of
its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. A vehicle hauling solid waste for which a bill
of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of Ohio R.C.
§§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds by more than
7.5% the weight provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, both of the following apply
without regard to the 7.5% allowance provided by this division (B) of this
section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by Ohio R.C. § 5577.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under Ohio R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or
5591.42, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of Ohio R.C.
§§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
no penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of Ohio R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do
not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%,
no penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in Ohio R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by Ohio R.C. § 5577.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under Ohio R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or
5591.42, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
§ 74.52   SIDES PROJECTING MATERIAL.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any load
carried thereon extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on either the left or right side of such vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 74.41)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle, see Ohio R.C. §
4513.30
§ 74.53   REAR PROJECTING MATERIAL.
   Whenever any load on any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
71.01, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required on every vehicle.
At any other time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load
a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches square.
(1995 Code, § 74.44)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.54   DEADENING NOISES.
   No person shall operate any vehicle laden with metallic or noisy substance
or material unless such load is so placed, packed, or deadened as to prevent
unnecessary noise.
(1995 Code, § 74.45)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT
§ 74.55   TELEVISION SETS IN VIEW OF DRIVER.
   No person shall operate or have on the highway any motor vehicle if such
motor vehicle is equipped or provided with a television set so placed that it
can be operated, used, or observed by the driver of that motor vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 74.55)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.56   POLICE OR FIRE RADIO COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall receive or assist in receiving
any police or fire communication by wire or radio, installed in a motor
vehicle, place of business, or home, and no person shall use the same or any
information therein contained for his or her own gain or benefit, directly or
indirectly.
   (B)   No person having received such intercepted communication or having
become acquainted with the contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of
the same or any part thereof, knowing that such information was so obtained,
shall divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect,
or meaning of the same or any part thereof, or use the same or any information
therein contained for his or her own benefit or gain, directly or indirectly,
or for the benefit of another not entitled thereto, directly or indirectly.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the receiving, divulging, publishing,
or utilizing of the contents of any police or fire communication broadcast by
newspapers, radio, television, or other public or semipublic news dissemination
media for the use of the general public, provided, that the provisions of this
section shall not apply to public utilities.
(1995 Code, § 74.56)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES; TOY VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.06   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.07   Roller skates, coaster and other toy vehicles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Display of registration number on snowmobiles
   
75.36   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Statutory reference:
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01   BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
who violates any provisions of this title described in division (A) of this
section that is applicable to bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or
summons by a law enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as
the operator of a motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person
who commits any such violation while operating a bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under Ohio R.C.
§ 4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator or by a motor vehicle operator when the trier of
fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle operator endangered the
lives of bicycle riders at the time of the violation, the court,
notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code to the contrary, may
require the bicycle operator or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully
complete a bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in
lieu of any penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio
Revised Code for that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
Ohio R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC § 4511.52) (1995 Code, § 75.01)
§ 75.02   OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized
bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in
this section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid
probationary motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license,
the person is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for
in this section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to Ohio R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under Ohio R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator
to give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and
control a motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an
examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued, but in no event shall
any motorized bicycle license be issued for a period longer than four years.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Each probationary motorized bicycle license or motorized bicycle
license shall be laminated with a transparent plastic material.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.521) (1995 Code, § 75.02)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see Ohio
R.C. § 4510.34
§ 75.03   RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same
meaning as given that term in Ohio R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other
person upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat
thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle other than upon such a firmly
attached and regular seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or
article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. No motorcycle shall
be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher than the shoulders of
the operator when the operator is seated in the operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4507.13,
shall operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle,
unless wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person
shall be a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly
wearing a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective
eye device shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety. The provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be
used in the trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time
of such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4507.05 in any of
the following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by Ohio R.C. §
4513.03(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle.
   (E)   Penalty. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.53)
   (F)   Operation of bicycles by minors. Minors 15 years of age or less may be
permitted to ride bicycles on sidewalks where the buildings do not abut the
paved portion of the sidewalk, provided, that when approaching a pedestrian or
other person lawfully using the sidewalk, any such minor riding on the sidewalk
shall give audible warning by means of a bell or horn and shall yield the use
of the sidewalk to such pedestrian or other person, dismounting if necessary to
do so.
   (G)   Excessive speed and loud noise from motorcycles.
      (1)   Excessive speed and loud noise shall not be tolerated by mopeds,
motor bikes, and motorcycles within the village limits.
      (2)   After 9:00 p.m., these vehicles shall not be allowed on the
streets, the only exception to this rule shall be for the owner to be going to
his or her residence or leaving the village.
      (3)   Any and all offenders shall be cited to Mayor's Court and
prosecuted.
      (4) The village shall have the right to impound any and all vehicles of
the offender, if the offender is known to be a recidivist.
(1995 Code, § 75.03) (Ord. 80-O-29, passed 5-12-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.04   PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or
self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.54) (1995 Code, § 75.04)
§ 75.05   RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles or motorcycles upon a roadway shall ride not
more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths or parts of roadways
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle to ride at
the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to do so. Conditions
that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway include when
necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, surface
hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do so, including if
the lane is too narrow for the bicycle and an overtaking vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.55) (1995 Code, § 75.05)
§ 75.06   EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at the times specified in Ohio R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped
with the following.
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or the operator
that shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-powered lamp that emits light
only when the bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle and white lamps and
white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of giving an audible
signal, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate brake when used on a
street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.56) (1995 Code, § 75.06)
§ 75.07   ROLLER SKATES, COASTER AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES.
   No person on roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicles, or similar device, shall go on any roadway other than the roadway of
a play street, except while crossing a highway on a crosswalk.
(1995 Code, § 75.07)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4503 or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4561, and any vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by Ohio R.C.
§ 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC and ELECTRONIC RECORD. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under Ohio R.C. § 4519.511.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01,
that is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or
highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
4511.01.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
(ORC § 4519.01)
§ 75.26   EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4519.20 and Ohio R.C. Chapter
119, equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose
vehicles shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the
following items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(ORC § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of
the rule.
(ORC § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of Ohio R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of
this section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned
not more than three days, or both.
(ORC § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of Ohio R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section
shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than
three days, or both.
(ORC § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27   CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by Ohio R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by Ohio R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(ORC § 4519.40)
§ 75.28   PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
Ohio R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in Ohio R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane; and
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under Ohio
R.C. § 4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under Ohio R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(ORC § 4519.41)
§ 75.29   LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a
valid, current driver's license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age but is 12 years of age or older and is accompanied by a parent or
guardian who is a licensed driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(ORC § 4519.44)
§ 75.30   MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by Ohio R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or
to any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has
reasonable cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and
lawful manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(ORC § 4519.45)
§ 75.31   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by Ohio R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(ORC § 4519.46)
§ 75.32   IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under Ohio R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any
court of record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided
by law, may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration
and license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send
the impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar,
who shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(ORC § 4519.47)
§ 75.33   LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(ORC § 4519.48)
§ 75.34   REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with Ohio R.C.
§§ 4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. This division (A)(2) shall take effect on January 1, 2017.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate Ohio R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by Ohio R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1547 and
Ohio R.C. Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(ORC § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see Ohio R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see Ohio R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see Ohio R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see Ohio R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see Ohio R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35   DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION NUMBER ON SNOWMOBILES.
   Upon receipt of a certificate of registration for a snowmobile, the owner
shall paint upon each side of the forward cowling of the snowmobile the
identifying registration number, in block characters of not less than two
inches in height and of such color as to be distinctly visible and legible.
(ORC § 4519.04(B))
§ 75.36   CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following.
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519
to be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction
or dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of Ohio R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for
which no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to
those sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(ORC § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see Ohio R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
Ohio R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Parking and stopping restrictions
   
76.08   Parking so as to create obstruction
   
76.09   Vehicle obstructing after collision
   
76.10   No standing and no parking zones
   
76.11   Truck loading zones
   
76.12   Restrictions on parking and storage of vehicles
   
76.13   Observance of traffic parking signs
   
76.14   Parking exceptions for funeral cars
   
76.15   Trucks obstructing traffic
   
76.16   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.17   Use of bus stops
   
76.18   Parking in bus stops
   
76.19   Parking at curbs
   
76.20   Parking on narrow streets
   
76.21   Parking on grade
   
76.22   Parking vehicle for sale
   
76.23   Locks on motor vehicles
   
76.24   Parking repaired vehicles
   
76.25   Parking on controlled access highways
   
76.26   Special parking restrictions
   
76.27   Special parking permits for veterans
   
76.28   Cleaning vehicles on street
   
76.29   Moving parked vehicle
   
76.30   Watching parked cars
Cross-reference:
   Unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, see §§
93.65 et seq.
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.18
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4521
§ 76.01   PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.66) (1995 Code, § 76.01)
§ 76.02   CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.661) (1995 Code, § 76.02)
§ 76.03   POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved
or improved or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(ORC § 4511.67)
   (C)   The owner of the vehicle shall pay any cost involved with respect to
the removal of such vehicle and for any storage charge.
(1995 Code, § 76.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.04   PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway;
(ORC § 4511.68(A))
      (17)   On a bicycle path; or
      (18)   On a bridle path.
   (B)   A person shall be permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand
or park on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine
not larger than 150 cubic centimeters, or a bicycle, provided that the motor-
driven cycle, motor scooter, or bicycle does not impede the normal flow of
pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize any person to operate a
vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4511.68(B), (C)) (1995 Code, § 76.04)
§ 76.05   PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and Ohio R.C. §
3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from
the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in Ohio R.C. § 4503.44(A)
(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under Ohio R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any
substantially equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or
temporary removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section; or
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning; and
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(ORC § 4511.69) (1995 Code, § 76.05)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.18
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see Ohio R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06   PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent; or
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4511.681)
§ 76.07   PARKING AND STOPPING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Village Manager is authorized and required to ascertain on what
highways and parts of highways and all other municipal property the
accommodation of traffic for the safety of the public requires the restriction
as to time, or the prohibition of the parking or stopping of vehicles, and he
or she shall erect and maintain appropriate traffic signs plainly indicating
the purport of such restrictions. No person shall park or stop a vehicle in
violation of a traffic sign so erected.
   (B)   When the parking or stopping restriction or prohibition is indicated
by a sign with a directional arrow the restriction or prohibition shall extend
in the direction or directions indicated to the next adjacent sign or signs or
to an alley or to an intersecting street.
(1995 Code, § 76.06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.08   PARKING SO AS TO CREATE OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   On any highway outside of a business or residence district no person
shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, on the paved or main traveled part of the highway when it is
practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such part of the
highway, but in every event a clear and unobstructed portion of the highway
opposite such standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction on such highway.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(1995 Code, § 76.07)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.09   VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING AFTER COLLISION.
   (A)   Whenever, following a collision not involving personal injuries, a
vehicle, whether or not the same is damaged or wrecked, is so placed as to
interfere with traffic or with the proper operation and service of the
divisions of fire, police, or highway maintenance, or with the operation of
motor buses, the driver or other person in charge of such vehicle shall,
without delay, move or cause the same to be moved to a location where it will
not interfere with or impede traffic operations.
   (B)   Whenever any such vehicle is left unattended, or whenever, on request,
the owner or operator of the same fails to remove it as hereinbefore provided,
any member of the Police Department, Fire Department, an employee of the
division of highway maintenance, or of a transit company affected by such
vehicle shall be authorized to remove it to a location where it will not
interfere with or impede traffic operations.
(1995 Code, § 76.08)
§ 76.10   NO STANDING AND NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Where no standing signs are erected, no person shall stop, stand, or
park any vehicle, in violation thereof, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control device.
   (B)   Where no parking signs are erected, the same provisions as above shall
be in force, except that the sign shall not apply to the temporary stopping of
a vehicle for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
of passengers or while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise.
(1995 Code, § 76.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.11   TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   When signs are erected designating an area for truck loading, no
vehicle other than a truck shall stop, stand, or park in such zone, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device. For the purpose of this section,
a truck shall be considered to be any vehicle so licensed as a commercial car
as provided under Ohio R.C. § 4503.04(d).
   (B)   No truck shall stop, stand, or park in such zone except while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise, or shall occupy such zone for this
purpose for a period in excess of 60 minutes.
   (C)   Stopping, standing, or parking of a truck in an area designated for
truck loading or where no parking signs are posted, for a period in excess of
15 minutes, without visible activity showing the vehicle to be actively engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise, shall be prima facie unlawful.
(1995 Code, § 76.10)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.12   RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   VEHICLE as used in this section shall include any device or means of
conveyance, with or without motive power, designed to carry passengers, goods
or equipment, including motor vehicles, trucks, semitrailers, trailers,
campers, boats and recreational vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall permit a vehicle to remain standing or parking upon
any street, alley or municipally-owned or controlled property for a continuous
period of:
      (1)   In the business district, two hours; or
      (2)   In any other area of the village, 72 hours.
   (C)   No vehicle which is abandoned, inoperable or lacking a valid license
shall be stored or parked in excess of 72 hours in any residential district,
unless it is in a completely enclosed garage or other accessory building.
   (D)   Except as may be specifically provided herein, no person shall live in
any boat, motor vehicle, camper, recreational vehicle or truck, within the
village.
   (E)   No person shall park or keep any semitrailer or any truck with a gross
vehicle weight rating (gvwr) in excess of 10,000 pounds at any place on
property located in a residential district, except in a completely enclosed
garage or other accessory building.
(1995 Code, § 76.11) (Ord. 97-O-22, passed 5-12-1997)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.13   OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC PARKING SIGNS.
   No person shall park any vehicle contrary to traffic sign regulations
erected for such purpose unless otherwise authorized.
(1995 Code, § 76.12) (Ord. 97-O-22, passed 5-12-1997)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.14   PARKING EXCEPTIONS FOR FUNERAL CARS.
   The provisions of any section of this chapter restricting the time during
which parking is prohibited shall not apply to funeral cars marked as
authorized by §
72.28, parked in the vicinity of a church, chapel, or residence while a funeral
is in progress therein.
(1995 Code, § 76.13)
§ 76.15   TRUCKS OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause any vehicle to stand on any street for the
purpose of receiving or unloading freight where there is a public alley from
which such freight can be delivered or received.
   (B)   No person shall cause any vehicle to stand on any highway so as to
obstruct traffic in or through such highway, or obstruct any coal chute on any
highway.
(1995 Code, § 76.14)
§ 76.16   BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   The Village Manager is authorized and required to establish bus stops and
taxicab stands in such places as he or she shall determine to be for the
benefit and convenience of the public. Every such bus stop or taxicab stand
shall be designated by an appropriate sign or signs.
(ORC § 737.022(G)) (1995 Code, § 76.15)
§ 76.17   USE OF BUS STOPS.
   No operator of a bus shall stop such bus for the purpose of receiving or
discharging passengers at any point other than at an authorized bus stop.
(1995 Code, § 76.16)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.18   PARKING IN BUS STOPS.
   No operator of any vehicle other than a bus shall stand or park such vehicle
in an officially designated bus stop where signs prohibit standing or parking.
(1995 Code, § 76.17)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.19   PARKING AT CURBS.
   (A)   Except where angle loading or parking is permitted by official signs
or markings, every vehicle stopped or parked on a roadway shall be stopped or
parked with the wheels of such vehicle parallel with and not more than 12
inches from the curb or edge of roadway unless it is impossible to approach so
close to the curb or edge of roadway because of an obstruction other than a
parked or stopped vehicle and in such case the stop shall be as close to the
curb or edge of roadway as possible and only for the time necessary to
discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
highway.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding sections or of any
state statute or of any rule, regulation, resolution, or ordinance, but subject
to the provisions of §
70.04, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being used
in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where and as necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagman
is on duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Highways.
(1995 Code, § 76.18)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.20   PARKING ON NARROW STREETS.
   No person shall park a vehicle on a roadway less than 18 feet wide. Where a
roadway is 18 feet or more, but less than 24 feet wide, no person shall park on
the south side where the general direction is east and west, unless parking is
prohibited by sign on the north side, or on the west side when the general
direction is north and south, unless parking is prohibited by sign on the east
side. On all roadways, it shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 12 feet of the width
of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except when necessary in
obedience to traffic regulations, traffic signs or signals, or a police
officer.
(1995 Code, § 76.19)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.21   PARKING ON GRADE.
   No person shall park or allow a motor vehicle to stand on any highway
unattended without first setting the brakes thereon and stopping the motor
thereof, and without turning the wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of
the highway if it is standing on a slope.
(1995 Code, § 76.20)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.22   PARKING VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   No person shall park on the highway any vehicle which is held in stock for
future sale. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the parking of
vehicles bearing dealers' license plates which are used in the actual
demonstration of a vehicle for sale.
(1995 Code, § 76.21)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.23   LOCKS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand,
if unattended, on the streets or highways without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition, and removing the key.
(1995 Code, § 76.22)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.24   PARKING REPAIRED VEHICLES.
   No owner, operator, or agent thereof, of a garage, service station, parking
lot, or other off-street parking or service facility shall place or allow to be
placed on any highway any vehicle left in his or her custody for repair,
servicing, or storage.
(1995 Code, § 76.23)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.25   PARKING ON CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle within the right-of-way line on a
controlled access highway except for emergency purposes or in compliance with
the direction of a police officer.
(1995 Code, § 76.24)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.26   SPECIAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   During the period of any snow emergency, no vehicle may be parked on
any snow emergency route, as defined in §
70.36, provided that special signs are erected indicating such a snow emergency
route.
   (B)   A vehicle parked on any snow emergency route at the time the snow
emergency is declared, shall be removed by the owner within three hours, if
such emergency is declared between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., or prior to 9:00
a.m. of the following morning, if the emergency is declared between the hours
of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Nothing in this section shall permit any vehicle to
be parked in violation of any other parking restriction previously established
by ordinance or by erection of signs by order of the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 76.25)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.27   SPECIAL PARKING PERMITS FOR VETERANS.
   The Village Manager is authorized to issue special parking permits granting
special parking privileges to war veterans who have as a result of a service
connected disability suffered the loss of the use of a leg or legs. Application
for such permits and the extent of the special privileges granted shall be in
accordance with rules and regulations to be adopted by the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 76.26)
§ 76.28   CLEANING VEHICLES ON STREET.
   No person on any highway shall repair, wash, polish, or clean any vehicle,
or park any vehicle for the purpose of so doing. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the making of such necessary emergency repairs as will
permit a vehicle to proceed.
(1995 Code, § 76.27)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.29   MOVING PARKED VEHICLE.
   Except in or in connection with the performance of their duties by members
of the Police Department and of the Fire Department and by employees of the
division of highway maintenance and except for the purpose of clearing the way
for transit vehicles, it shall be unlawful for any person to move any vehicle
left standing on a highway by another person, unless with the consent or by the
direction of the owner or person in charge of such vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 76.28)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.30   WATCHING PARKED CARS.
   No person shall solicit or accept employment as a guard, watcher, or
caretaker of any vehicle parked or about to be parked on any highway.
(1995 Code, § 76.29)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following locations are stop intersections and subject to the applicable
provisions of this code:
 
Intersection                    Description Ord. No. Date Passed
Mangham Dr. and Chamberlain St. Two-way     78-O-16  - -1978
Simmons St. and McGhee St.      Four-way    79-O-18  - -1979
 
(1995 Code, Ch. 77, Sched. I)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are declared one-way streets in the village:
 
Street          Location                             Ord. No. Date Passed
Schumard Street Beginning at Magee and going east to 84-O-1   2-13-1984
                Shepherd Lane
 
(1995 Code, Ch. 77, Sched. II)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES; FIRE PREVENTION
   
92.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
   
93.   NUISANCES; JUNKED VEHICLES
   
94.   SANITATION AND HEALTH
   
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
96.   SPOT BLIGHT
   
97.   PARADES, MARCHES OR PROCESSIONS
   
98.   BASKETBALL COURTS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Liability insurance required
   
90.03   Registration of dogs
   
90.04   Rules, regulations and fees
   
90.05   Seizure and impoundment of dog
   
90.06   Seeing eye dogs
Animals Running at Large
   
90.20   Leash required
   
90.21   Dangerous dog to be properly confined or leashed
   
90.22   Vicious dog to be properly confined or leashed
   
90.23   Possession of dangerous or vicious dog prohibited
   
90.24   Animals running at large
   
90.25   Strays
   
90.26   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.27   Fees
   
90.28   Quarantine
   
90.29   Interference with quarantine orders
   
90.30   Reporting escape of certain animals required
Offenses relating to Domestic Animals
   
90.45   Abandoning animals
   
90.46   Injuring animals
   
90.47   Poisoning animals
   
90.48   Cruelty to animals
   
90.49   Animal fights
   
90.50   Trapshooting
   
90.51   Loud dog
   
90.52   Pit bull terriers
   
90.53   Pit bull identification
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPETENT ADULT. An individual over 18 years of age with both the mental and
physical ability to control the dog that he or she is harboring.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog which has:
      (1)   Without provocation while off its owner's or harborer's premises
causes an individual to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical
harm to a person; or
      (2)   A propensity or disposition to unprovokedly attack or cause injury
to humans or domestic animals off its owner's or harborer's premises.
   HARBOR. Control, possess or oversee.
   HARMLESS DOG. A dog which is neither dangerous nor vicious.
   INJURY. Any injury less than a severe injury.
   LEASH. A rope, leather strap, chain or other type of tether with sufficient
strength to bind a dog to the person harboring the dog.
   OWNER. Any individual, person, partnership, firm, joint stock company,
corporation, associations, trust, estate, or other legal entity. The knowledge
and actions of the person employed by or agents acting on behalf of
corporations or principals shall be imputed to be the knowledge and acts of
both the individuals, corporations and principals. If the OWNER of a dog is a
minor, then the minor's parent or legal guardian is deemed the owner for the
purposes of this chapter.
   PREMISES. The structure and the real property which is immediately
surrounding the structure titled to or controlled by the owner or harborer of a
dog. This shall include any place of residence, business or other property.
   SEVERE INJURY. A physical injury to a human being that results in a broken
bone or muscle tear requiring corrective or cosmetic surgery or resulting in
hospitalization, any physical injury to a child under the age of six years
requiring the treatment of a licensed physician.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which:
      (1)   Without provocation, has inflicted severe injury on a person;
      (2)   Has been trained for dog fighting or is kept primarily or in part
for the purpose of dog fighting;
      (3)   Is a dog commonly defined as a pit bull; or
      (4)   Has been used in the commission of a crime.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.02   LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner or harborer of a vicious dog, or in the event the owner is a
minor, the owner's parent or guardian shall obtain and keep in force liability
insurance in an amount of not less than $50,000 protecting against injury or
death caused by such vicious dog. The owner or harborer, or in the event the
owner or harborer is a minor, the owner's or harborer's parent or guardian,
shall provide the Lincoln Heights Police Department with proof of the insurance
required herein.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03   REGISTRATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   The registration of dogs shall be with the Hamilton County Auditor in
accordance with Ohio R.C. § 955.01, and its amendments, which are adopted and
incorporated herein.
   (B)   The owner or harborer of a dangerous and/or vicious dog shall within
seven days of possession comply with divisions of (1) through (8) of this
section; and with all other divisions indicated herein:
      (1)   Have the dangerous dog identified using a micro chip inserted
between the top of the dog's shoulder blades at the withers by an individual
licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of Ohio;
      (2)   Have the vicious dog tattooed on the inside thigh and have an
identifying micro chip inserted between the top of the dog's shoulder blades
and the withers by an individual licensed to practice veterinary medicine in
the State of Ohio. The tattoo shall be a number provided by the Lincoln Heights
Police Department;
      (3)   Provide the Lincoln Heights Police Department with:
         (a)   Documentation from the veterinarian describing the tattoo and
micro chip number;
         (b)   Current color photographs of the dog showing the front face,
side head, and whole body of the dog, and any identifying characteristic such
as color marking or scars; and
         (c)   Name, address and phone number of the owner or harborer.
      (4)   If the owner or harborer has registered a dangerous or vicious dog
he or she shall notify within 24 hours, the Lincoln Heights Police Department
of a change of his or her address and/or phone number;
      (5)   If the owner or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog has sold,
given away or if control of the dog has in any other manner been transferred
for more than 48 consecutive hours, he or she shall notify the Lincoln Heights
Police Department within 24 hours of the name and address of the individual
harboring the dog;
      (6)   Within 75 hours of taking possession of a dog registered under this
chapter, register the dog with the Lincoln Heights Police Department, if the
dog is harbored in the Village of Lincoln Heights;
      (7)   The owner or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall re-
register the dog with the Lincoln Heights Police Department; and
      (8)   The owner or harborer of a vicious dog shall immediately notify the
Lincoln Heights Police Department when the dog is loose or has attacked a
person.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04   RULES, REGULATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Village Manager is authorized to establish rules, regulations and
fees with the approval of Council for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, including the removal of the dangerous dog designation.
   (B)   The Village Manager is authorized to charge an annual fee, not to
exceed $50, for the registration of a dangerous or vicious dog.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.05   SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF DOG.
   (A)   A police officer or dog warden shall remove from the premises any
vicious dog not properly confined, if the owner or harborer of the dog has been
previously convicted of violating §
90.22.
   (B)   A police officer or dog warden shall remove from the premises any dog
that has attached or severely injured a human.
   (C)   The police officer or dog warden who removes a dog pursuant to this
section shall file the appropriate complaint in Mayor's Court and hold the dog
until final adjudication of the charge.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.06   SEEING EYE DOGS.
   (A)   When a blind person is accompanied by a dog which serves as a guide or
leader for him or her, and he or she can show proof by certificate or other
means that the dog leading him or her has been trained for that purpose by a
special agency engaged in that work, the person is entitled to the full and
equal accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels and lodging places, all place of public accommodation,
amusement or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into these conveyance and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitation applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance; or
      (2)   The dog shall be on a leash while using the facilities of a common
carrier.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a blind person of any of the advantages,
facilities or privileges provided in division (A) hereof, nor charge the blind
person a fee or charge for the dog.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.20   LEASH REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner or harborer of a harmless dog, not on the premises or in a
motor vehicle, shall keep the dog on a leash of such length to keep the dog
from annoying others.
   (B)   A harmless dog may be unleashed if either of the following is
applicable:
      (1)   The dog is in training, competition or show; or
      (2)   The dog is on property with the permission of the property owner.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.21   DANGEROUS DOG TO BE PROPERLY CONFINED OR LEASHED.
   The owner or harborer of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog:
   (A)   When outdoors and on the premises in a securely fenced area or on a
leash controlled by a competent adult; and
   (B)   When not on the premises, securely restrained with a leash, not
exceeding six feet in length and under the control of a competent adult.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.22   VICIOUS DOG TO BE PROPERLY CONFINED OR LEASHED.
   The owner or harborer of a vicious dog shall:
   (A)   When the dog is indoors secure all means of egress so that the dog may
not exit;
   (B)   (1)   When the dog is outside and on the premises of the owner or
harborer be confined at all times in a roofed, securely fenced and locked
barricade designed so that the dog may not dig his or her way out.
      (2)   The barricade must be at least six feet in length measuring from
the ground with an attached top and posted with a sign stating vicious dog in
symbols and words, and constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the
barricade with his or her hand; and
   (C)   (1)   When the dog is off the premises of the owner or harborer,
muzzled and securely restrained with a leash not exceeding three feet in length
and under the control of a competent adult.
      (2)   In the alternative a vicious dog may be confined in a locked crate
which is constructed of material of sufficient strength to prevent escape and
posted with a sign stating vicious dog by both symbol and words, and
constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the barricade with his or her
hand.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.23   POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than three
dangerous dogs.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than one
vicious dog which is over the age of six months, at one time.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.24   ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   A person, firm or corporation which is the owner or has charge of any
animals or fowls shall not permit them to run at large in the public road,
highway, street, lane or alley or upon unenclosed land, or permit them to go
upon any private yard, lot or enclosure without the consent of the owner of the
yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall cause animals to be herded, kept
or detained for the purpose of grazing on premises other than that owned or
occupied by the owner or keeper thereof.
   (C)   The running at large of such animal on or upon any of the places
mentioned in divisions (A) and (B) above is prima facie evidence that it is
running at large in violation of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section for which another
penalty is not provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.25   STRAYS.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of this chapter may and a
law enforcement officer of the village, on view or information, shall take and
confine such animal, forthwith giving notice thereof to the owner or keeper, if
known, and if not known, by publishing a notice describing the animal at least
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or village wherein the
animal was found. If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal
and pay the compensation authorized under this chapter for so taking,
advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date of such notice, such
person of the village shall have a lien therefore and the animal may be sold at
public auction as provided in Ohio R.C. § 1311.49, and the residue of the
proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the treasurer in the general
fund of the village.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.26   UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal at large in violation of the chapter escaped
from its owner or keeper without his or her knowledge or fault, the animal
shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon payment of a reasonable
compensation for its taking and keeping.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.27   FEES.
   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an animal
running at large in violation of this chapter is entitled to receive from the
owner or harborer thereof, the following compensation:
   (A)   For taking and advertising each animal, $5;
   (B)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each such animal;
and
   (C)   Compensation for taking, advertising and keeping a single herd or
flock not to exceed $50 when such flock or herd belongs to one person.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.28   QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Orders of Mayor.
      (1)   Whenever the Mayor shall deem it necessary or for the protection of
the public, he or she shall issue an order prohibiting for a certain time, any
dog from being at large in any public street or place unless muzzled and on a
leash, so as to effectually prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      (2)   This order shall be posted in three conspicuous places in the
municipality, for such time as the Mayor deems necessary, and any dog found at
large during the existence of this quarantine order shall be impounded and may
be destroyed by municipal authority without notice to the owner.
   (2)   Ohio Revised Code. Rabies Quarantine, Ohio R.C. § 955.26, relating to
quarantine of rabies and all amendments and penalties thereto, are adopted and
incorporated in this chapter.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.29   INTERFERENCE WITH QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   No person shall molest or interfere with any officer while engaged in the
enforcement of the quarantine order issued herein.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.30   REPORTING ESCAPE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any member of a species of the animal kingdom
that escapes from his or her custody or control and that is not indigenous to
this state or presents a rick of serious physical harm to persons or property,
or both, shall, within one hour after he or she discovers or reasonably should
have discovered the escape, report it to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer of the municipal corporation or township
and the sheriff of the county where the escape occurred; and
      (2)   The Village Clerk of the village or the Township Clerk of the
township where the escape occurred.
   (B)   If the office of the Village Clerk of the village or Township Clerk is
closed to the public at the time a report is required by division (A) of this
section, then it is sufficient compliance with division (A)(2) of this section
if the owner or keeper makes the report within one hour after the office is
next open to the public.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
OFFENSES RELATING TO DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.45   ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal, shall abandon
the animal.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.46   INJURING ANIMALS.
   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of the
owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal, filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow,
steer, bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat or other domestic animal that is
the property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.47   POISONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of the
owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a horse, mare, foal, filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer,
bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, poultry, or any other domestic animal
that is the property of another; and no person shall, willfully and without the
consent of the owner, place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and
eaten by any of these animals, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of
another.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.48   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate, kill, or impound or confine
any animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means a manmade enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; or
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefore. This section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to
the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there
is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be paid to the general
fund.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.49   ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   No person shall knowingly engage in or be employed at cockfighting, bear
baiting or pitting an animal against another; no person shall receive money for
the admission of another to a place kept for this purpose; no person shall use,
train, or possess any animal for seizing, detaining, or maltreating a domestic
animal. Any person who knowingly purchases a ticket of admission to such place,
or is present thereat, or witnesses such spectacle, is an aider and abettor.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.50   TRAPSHOOTING.
   Live birds for fowl shall not be used as targets in trapshooting.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.51   LOUD DOG.
   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow such dog to
annoy or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate
residences of this municipality by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping,
barking or making of any other such noises by such dog within the corporate
limits.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.52   PIT BULL TERRIERS.
   (A)   Finding. The Village Council makes a legislative finding that the
owning or harboring of pit bull terriers within the village limits is
detrimental to the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the village.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall own, keep or harbor a pit bull terrier as
defined herein within the municipal limits of the village.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PIT BULL TERRIER. Any Staffordshire bull terrier or American
Staffordshire bull terrier or any mixed breed of dog that contains, as an
element of its breeding, the breed of Staffordshire bull terrier as to be
identifiable as partially of the breed of Staffordshire bull terrier or
American bull terrier by a qualified veterinarian duly licensed as such by the
State of Ohio.
   (D)   Lack of knowledge not a defense. The lack of knowledge or intent is
not a defense to any violation of this section.
   (E)   Violation. Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to the foregoing
penalties any person found guilty of violating this section shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, veterinarian expenses for identification or
certification of the breed of the animal, or boarding and veterinarian expenses
necessitated by the seizure of any dog or the expenses that may be required for
the elimination of any such dog.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.53   PIT BULL IDENTIFICATION.
   Pit bull may be identified by a veterinarian licensed by the State of Ohio,
the Hamilton County dog warden or a Deputy Hamilton County dog warden.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 90.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
90.02,
90.03,
90.21,
90.23 shall be guilty of a second degree misdemeanor.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
90.22 shall be guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.
   (D)   In addition to divisions (A) and (B), any vicious dog which attacks a
human being or domestic animal may be ordered destroyed, when in the court's
judgment such vicious dog represents a continuing threat of serving harm to
human beings or domestic animals.
   (E)   In addition, any person found guilty of violating §
90.22 shall pay all expenses inducing shelter, food and transportation of the
dog, expenses for identification of the breed of animal and veterinary expenses
necessitated by the seizure of any dog for the protection of the public.
   (F)   Whoever violates §
90.47, if the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to less
than $300, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; if the value of the
animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (G)   Whoever violates §§
90.48,
90.50, or
90.51 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (H)   Whoever violates §
90.49 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court
may order the offender to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for
its disposition including, but not limited to, the sale of the animal or
livestock. If the animal or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this
division, the proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses
incurred with regard to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from
the custody of the former owner. The balance of the proceeds shall be paid to
the former owner of the animal.
   (I)   Whoever violates §
90.30 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 00-O-14, passed 6-19-2000; Am. Ord. 2009-O-13, passed 10-26-2009)
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Possession, sale, and use of fireworks
   
91.03   Permit to use fireworks
   
91.04   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
91.05   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
91.06   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
91.07   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
91.08   Application of subchapter
   
91.09   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
   
91.10   Safety requirements for fireworks showroom structures
Explosives
   
91.20   Storage of explosives
   
91.21   Blasting permit
Fire Prevention
   
91.30   Removal of flammable materials or obstructions
   
91.31   Protective appliances
   
91.32   Compliance with order
   
91.33   Waste receptacles
   
91.34   Hotel to have fire warning device producing visible signal
   
91.35   Fire suppression systems
   
91.36   Violations of State Fire Code prohibited
   
91.37   Posting arson notices in hotels, motels and other places
   
91.38   Negligent burning
   
91.39   Spreading alarm of unfriendly fire
   
91.40   Unvented heaters
Open Burning
   
91.55   Definitions
   
91.56   Relations to other prohibitions
   
91.57   Open burning in restricted areas
   
91.58   Permission and notice to open burn
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 34
Statutory reference:
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19
   Power to regulate explosives, see Ohio R.C. § 715.60
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. EXPLOSIVE includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters.  EXPLOSIVES does not include “fireworks”
as defined below, or any substance or material otherwise meeting the definition
of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured, sold, possessed,
transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C. § 3743.80,
provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable laws,
rules, and regulations, including, but not limited to, the provisions of R.C. §
3743.80 and the rules of the State Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
3737.82.
(ORC § 2923.11)
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule
adopted under this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers, and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices; or
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Fire Chief pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3743.04(I) or Ohio R.C. §
3743.17(G) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(ORC § 3743.01) (1995 Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02   POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.02 through
3743.08, a licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. §§
3743.15 through 3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by Ohio R.C. §
3743.40, an out-of-state resident as authorized by Ohio R.C. § 3743.44, a
resident of this state as authorized by Ohio R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed
exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55,
or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any of these statutes, and except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 3743.80 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks
authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.50
through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, no person
shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or
shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
(ORC § 3743.65(A) - (F)) (1995 Code, § 91.02)
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see Ohio R.C. §
3743.65(G)
§ 91.03   PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact,
a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer,
in consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the Village Council has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a
permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss to person
or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance
coverage of at least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death, or
loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The
Council may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of
insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this division. The
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a permit until the
exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage required by this
division or by the Council.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The Council shall require that a certified fire safety inspector, Fire
Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and after the
exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the exhibition is to
take place and determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this
chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.
(ORC § 3743.54) (1995 Code, § 91.03)
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see Ohio R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.04   MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of Ohio R.C.
§§ 3743.06 and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of
these records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant
to Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to Ohio
R.C. §§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to Ohio
R.C. §§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are
eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72 hour period specified in
those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame-producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 3743.06(C) or Ohio R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
(ORC §§ 3743.60(E) - (J), 3743.61(E) - (J))
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) through (D) and 3743.61(A)
through (D)
§ 91.05   PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who resides in another state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with Ohio R.C. § 3743.44.
   (B)   No person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality shall obtain possession of fireworks in this municipality
other than from a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when
transporting 1.3G fireworks, to transport them directly out of the state within
72 hours after the time of their purchase. No such person shall give or sell to
any other person in this municipality fireworks that the person has acquired in
this state.
   (C)   No person who resides in this state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with Ohio R.C. § 3743.45.
   (D)   No person who resides in this state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality under Ohio R.C. § 3743.45 shall obtain possession of the
fireworks in this municipality other than from a licensed manufacturer or
licensed wholesaler, or fail, when transporting the fireworks, to transport
them directly out of the state within 48 hours after the time of their
purchase. No such person shall give or sell to any other person in this
municipality fireworks that the person has acquired in this state.
(ORC § 3743.63)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06   EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to Ohio R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with Ohio R.C. § 3743.53(C) and
(D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a
permit so secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, or with a designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under Ohio R.C. § 3743.56.
(ORC § 3743.64(C) - (G))
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B), and (H)
   Notice of fireworks incident, see Ohio R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.07   UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under Ohio R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly
to the holder of a license issued under Ohio R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or
3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under Ohio R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(ORC § 3743.66)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.08   APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation, or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state of pyrotechnic devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers; or
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(ORC § 3743.80)
§ 91.09   ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or a certified fire
safety inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or
she finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to
believe has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be
made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
arrests by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal's office or
certified fire safety inspector's office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal's office or certified fire safety inspector's office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in Ohio R.C. §§ 2981.11
to 2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies,
and the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this
subchapter or to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or
used in violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession, or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in Ohio R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(ORC § 3743.68)
§ 91.10   SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS SHOWROOM STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as described in division (A)(2) of this section, all
retail sales of 1.4G fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall
only occur from an approved retail sales showroom on a licensed premises or
from a representative sample showroom as described in this section on a
licensed premises. For the purposes of this section, a retail sale includes the
transfer of the possession of the 1.4G fireworks from the licensed manufacturer
or wholesaler to the purchaser of the fireworks.
      (2)   Sales of 1.4G fireworks to a licensed exhibitor for a properly
permitted exhibition shall occur in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code and rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal under R.C. Chapter
119. Such rules shall specify, at a minimum, that the licensed exhibitor holds
a license under R.C. § 3743.51, that the exhibitor possesses a valid exhibition
permit issued in accordance with R.C. § 3743.54, and that the fireworks shipped
are to be used at the specifically permitted exhibition.
   (B)   All wholesale sales of fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall only occur from a licensed premises to persons who intend to
resell the fireworks purchased at wholesale. A wholesale sale by a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler may occur as follows:
      (1)   The direct sale and shipment of fireworks to a person outside of
this state;
      (2)   From an approved retail sales showroom as described in this
section;
      (3)   From a representative sample showroom as described in this section;
      (4)   By delivery of wholesale fireworks to a purchaser at a licensed
premises outside of a structure or building on that premises. All other
portions of the wholesale sales transaction may occur at any location on a
licensed premises.
      (5)   Any other method as described in rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
under R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   (1)   A licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only sell 1.4G
fireworks from a representative sample showroom or a retail sales showroom.
Each licensed premises shall only contain one sales structure.
      (2)   A representative sample showroom shall consist of a structure
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Nonresidential Building Code
adopted under R.C. Chapter 3781 and the Fire Code adopted under R.C. § 3737.82
for a use and occupancy group that permits mercantile sales. A representative
sample showroom shall not contain any pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic materials,
fireworks, explosives, explosive materials, or any similar hazardous materials
or substances. A representative sample showroom shall be used only for the
public viewing of fireworks product representations, including paper materials,
packaging materials, catalogs, photographs, or other similar product
depictions. The delivery of product to a purchaser of fireworks at a licensed
premises that has a representative sample structure shall not occur inside any
structure on a licensed premises. Such product delivery shall occur on the
licensed premises in a manner prescribed by rules adopted by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   If a manufacturer or wholesaler elects to conduct sales from a
retail sales showroom, the showroom structures, to which the public may have
any access and in which employees are required to work, on all licensed
premises, shall comply with the following safety requirements:
         (a)   A fireworks showroom that is constructed or upon which expansion
is undertaken on and after June 30, 1997, shall be equipped with interlinked
fire detection, fire suppression, smoke exhaust, and smoke evacuation systems
that are approved by the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Department of Commerce.
         (b)   A fireworks showroom that first begins to operate on or after
June 30, 1997, and to which the public has access for retail purposes shall not
exceed 5,000 square feet in floor area.
         (c)   A newly constructed or an existing fireworks showroom structure
that exists on September 23, 2008, but that, on or after September 23, 2008, is
altered or added to in a manner requiring the submission of plans, drawings,
specifications, or data pursuant to R.C. § 3791.04, shall comply with a graphic
floor plan layout that is approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent
of Industrial Compliance showing width of aisles, parallel arrangement of
aisles to exits, number of exits per wall, maximum occupancy load, evacuation
plan for occupants, height of storage or display of merchandise, and other
information as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of
Industrial Compliance.
         (d)   A fireworks showroom structure that exists on June 30, 1997,
shall be in compliance on or after June 30, 1997, with floor plans showing
occupancy load limits and internal circulation and egress patterns that are
approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of Industrial Compliance,
and that are submitted under seal as required by R.C. § 3791.04.
   (D)   The safety requirements established in division (C) of this section
are not subject to any variance, waiver, or exclusion pursuant to this chapter
or any applicable building code.
(ORC § 3743.25)
Penalty, see § 91.99
EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.20   STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the municipality a quantity
of gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
(1995 Code, § 91.04)
Penalty, see § 91.99
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacture or processing of explosives, felony provisions, see Ohio
R.C. § 2923.17
§ 91.21   BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor or other
proper municipal officer. The Mayor or other proper municipal officer before
granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify
the municipality and all other persons against injury or damages which might
result from the proposed blasting.
(1995 Code, § 91.05)
Penalty, see § 91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.30   REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any flammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, any premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard. The order
shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises.
(1995 Code, § 91.06)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31   PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief finds upon inspection that the appliances for protection
against fire are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement, or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises
against fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the
owner, lessee, or occupant requiring the installation, replacement, or repair
of appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
(1995 Code, § 91.07)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32   COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   An order to correct the hazardous conditions specified in either §
91.30 or
91.31 shall be directed to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, or to the person in control of the articles, material,
goods, wares, or merchandise, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require. It is made the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, and of the person in control of such articles,
materials, goods, wares, and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with
the order with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.
(1995 Code, § 91.08)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.33   WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
(1995 Code, § 91.09)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.34   HOTEL TO HAVE FIRE WARNING DEVICE PRODUCING VISIBLE SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every hotel shall have available at least one operational single
station automatic fire warning device approved by the Fire Chief that produces
a visible warning signal when activated by every product of combustion. The
device, at the discretion of the owner, may also be activated by an early
warning fire protection system. Hotels having fewer than 75 rooms shall have at
least one warning device available for its guests. Hotels having more than 75
rooms shall have available for its guests one device for every group of 75
rooms. Upon the request of a guest, such a device, if available, shall be
installed in the guest's room.
   (B)   As used in this section, HOTEL means every establishment kept, used,
maintained, advertised, or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered to guests in which five or more rooms are used for
accommodation of such guests, whether the rooms are in one or several
structures, except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. § 5739.09(G).
(ORC §§ 3781.107, 5739.01(M))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(ORC §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 91.35   FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Every building constructed in this municipality with floors used for
human occupancy located more than 75 feet in height above the lower level of
fire department vehicle access shall have a fire suppression system installed
and in operation in conformity with the rules of the State Board of Building
Standards adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3781.10.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM. A system that includes devices and equipment to
detect a fire, actuate an alarm, and suppress or control a fire.
      HUMAN OCCUPANCY. Does not include floors of buildings where occupancy by
humans is limited to ingress, egress, and limited access for maintenance and
repair.
(ORC § 3781.108(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(ORC §§ 3791.02, 3791.03)
§ 91.36   VIOLATIONS OF STATE FIRE CODE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the State Fire Code
or any order made pursuant to it.
(ORC § 3737.51(A))
   (B)   Except as a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies
of unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, involves subject matter covered by the State Fire
Code, whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(ORC § 3737.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Fire Code violations, see Ohio R.C. §§ 3737.41 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
§ 91.37   POSTING ARSON NOTICES IN HOTELS, MOTELS AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee of any hotel, motel or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 2909.02 and
2909.03, regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each
room occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of any
nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(ORC § 3737.61)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 3737.99(C))
§ 91.38   NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field or wooded lot.
(ORC § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 3737.99(D))
§ 91.39   SPREADING ALARM OF UNFRIENDLY FIRE.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the State Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the fire department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(ORC § 3737.63)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC § 3737.99(E))
§ 91.40   UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions.
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under Ohio R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and Type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under Ohio R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under Ohio R.C. § 3737.82.
(ORC § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 3701.99(B)) (1995 Code, § 139.03)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.55   DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural,
or livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials, and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/fallen barns);
garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor
economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer has identified
open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
      AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
2014 S-3
Fireworks and Explosives; Fire Prevention   33
      EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
         (a)   A tornado.
         (b)   High winds.
         (c)   An earthquake.
         (d)   An explosion.
         (e)   A flood.
         (f)   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
      GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
      INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any public
structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
      OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency District Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or O.A.C.
3745-17-10.
 
2014 S-3
34   Lincoln Heights - General Regulations
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result
of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
      RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality, plus a
zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having a
population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond any
municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the availability
of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular
edition or version of the material is included in this legislation. For
materials subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this
legislation are referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the
effective date of this legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of
existing (unmodified) Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or
revision to a referenced document is not applicable unless and until this
section has been amended to specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
         (a)   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         (b)   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         (c)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         (a)   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (b)   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (c)   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         (d)   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the 2000
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01)
§ 91.56   RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.57   OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) of this section or
in Ohio R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention.
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(4) of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with §
91.58(B):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (B)(2) of this section, provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with §
91.58(A), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) of this section;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in §
91.58(A)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for the
instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range, or
wildlife management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.58   PERMISSION AND NOTICE TO OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) of this section,
such applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) of this section, permission
to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where
public health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay
while written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of
the Ohio EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1) of this
section shall contain information as required in division (A)(2) of this
section, except the information required in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(d)
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be considered
a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under paragraph §
91.57(D)(2) and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be
granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to
demolish received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with
O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least 10 working days
before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be
considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such information
as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA shall
notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 3743.60(I) or Ohio R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
91.04(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
91.06(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division and unless the third sentence of this division applies, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be suspended, and the person is ineligible to apply for either
type of licence, for a period of five years. If the violation of §
91.06(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked, and that person is
ineligible to apply for a license as or to be licensed as an exhibitor of
fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks in this state.
(ORC § 3743.99(C), (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalties for violations of State Fire Code, see Ohio R.C. § 3737.51
(B) through (H)
CHAPTER 92: INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
92.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
92.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
92.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
92.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
92.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
92.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
92.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
92.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
92.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
92.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
92.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
92.14   Posting of card
   
92.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
92.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
92.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
92.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
92.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
92.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
92.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
92.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
92.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
92.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
92.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
92.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
92.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
92.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
92.29   Affirmative defenses
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated or drugged, implied consent, see §§
73.01 and
73.011
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see Ohio R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see Ohio R.C.
§ 4510.33
§ 92.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to Ohio R.C. § 351.02; or
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to Ohio R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in Ohio R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented.
INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR include cider and alcohol, and all solids and
confections which contain 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4729.01, that is under
the management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with Ohio R.C.
§ 4729.27.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders
for beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the
Division of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating
liquor, but no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been
registered with the Division pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. SALES AREA OR TERRITORY does not
include, however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic
area or territory that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before
April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, which is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. Except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4301.01(B)(3), the term does not
include cider.
(ORC §§ 4301.01, 4301.244) (1995 Code, § 92.01)
§ 92.02   EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following.
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer's tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 5733.46.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30 day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor which have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles must
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(ORC § 4301.20)
§ 92.03   RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated
at a table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating
liquor so served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 4301.22, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling,
restocking, and replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the
controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
            “The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be
removed from the premises.”
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
4303.271. The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the
following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section; and
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. § 4301.62(B)(8), the
seller shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so
sold from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess
any charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(ORC § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.02)
§ 92.04   RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the State
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   No intoxicating liquor shall be handled by any person under 21
years of age, except that a person 18 years of age or older employed by a
permit holder may handle or sell beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed
containers in connection with wholesale or retail sales, and any person 19
years of age or older employed by a permit holder may handle intoxicating
liquor in open containers when acting in the capacity of a server in a hotel,
restaurant, club, or night club, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4301.01, or in the
premises of a D-7 permit holder. This section does not authorize persons under
21 years of age to sell intoxicating liquor across a bar. Any person employed
by a permit holder may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed containers
in connection with manufacturing, storage, warehousing, placement, stocking,
bagging, loading, or unloading, and may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in
open containers in connection with cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or
glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under Ohio R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of Ohio R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes
the sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any twenty-four-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting
samples free of charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is
21 years of age or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the
premises of the permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs
of providing tasting samples authorized under division (A)(4) of this section.
         (b)   As used in division (A)(4) of this section:
            TASTING SAMPLE. Means one of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine;
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. Means a person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-
2x, D-3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i,
D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer's name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no sale of any gift
certificate shall be permitted whereby beer or intoxicating liquor of any kind
is to be exchanged for the certificate, unless the gift certificate can be
exchanged only for food, and beer or intoxicating liquor, for on-premises
consumption and the value of the beer or intoxicating liquor does not exceed
more than 30% of the total value of the gift certificate. The sale of gift
certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages shall be
permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises
consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift certificate for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises consumption may be expressed by
clearly stamping or typing on the face of the certificate that the certificate
may not be used for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-
premises consumption.
(ORC § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of Ohio R.C.
§§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or Ohio
R.C. § 4301.22(A).
(ORC § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(D), (H)) (1995 Code, § 92.04)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see Ohio R.C. §
4301.251
§ 92.05   PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. 
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with Ohio R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 Code or rules adopted thereunder.
(ORC § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control,
in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or intoxicating
liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Department authorized to
manufacture beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture any beer or
intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous liquor.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of a A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Department, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the
Department or the Tax Commissioner authorized to sell beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or
alcohol for sale to any persons other than those authorized by this chapter and
Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor,
or sell any alcohol at retail. This division does not apply to or affect the
sale or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Department, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Department or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Department authorizing the sale of
intoxicating liquor, unless the same has been purchased with the special
consent of the Department. The Department shall revoke the permit of any person
convicted of a violation of this division.
(ORC § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.05)
§ 92.06   ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(ORC § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.06)
§ 92.07   OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE means a vehicle registered under Ohio R.C. §
4503.24.
      STREET, HIGHWAY, and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
§ 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking; and
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2 permit holder or S permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in Ohio R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under Ohio R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from a qualified permit
holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the motor vehicle is stationary and is not being operated in a lane of
vehicular travel or unless the possession is otherwise authorized under
division (D) or (E) of this section.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located; and
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(ORC § 4301.62)
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4301.99(A)) (1995 Code, § 92.07)
§ 92.08   UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating
liquor.
(ORC § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(ORC § 4301.99(E)) (1995 Code, § 92.08)
§ 92.09   PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low- alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(ORC § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(ORC § 4301.99(E)) (1995 Code, § 92.09)
§ 92.10   ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(ORC § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 4301.99(A))
§ 92.11   MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name,
age, or other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the
purpose of obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor
for a person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(ORC § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.11)
§ 92.12   MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(ORC § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver's
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio
R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial
remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in
lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary
driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to
perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with the court
determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service
the offender shall perform.
(ORC § 4301.99(F)) (1995 Code, § 92.12)
§ 92.13   SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person,
shall buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish
it to an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician's practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the public place
while possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the
intoxicating liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it
by that person's parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian and the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian is present at the time of the person's possession or consumption of
the beer or intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not
liable for acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed
by a lessee of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the
lessee's acts or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician's practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under Ohio R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under Ohio R.C.
§§ 2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, Ohio R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the
offense, except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if
the person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)
(2)(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under Ohio R.C. § 2953.52. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or Ohio R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS and
PRESCRIPTION. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. A person under the age of 21 years.
(ORC § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or
affect divisions (A) through (H) of this section or Ohio R.C. § 4301.69.
(ORC § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If an
offender who violates division (E)(1) of this section was under the age of 18
years at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender
was the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to any other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the
offender's temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's license for a
period of six months. If the offender is 15 years and 6 months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and 6 months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(ORC § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(ORC § 4301.99(I)) (1995 Code, § 92.21)
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see Ohio R.C. § 4301.691
§ 92.14   POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. § 4301.691, every
place in this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol
beverage is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a
prominent place on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be
furnished by the Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially
as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
      Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
      Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the
Division of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
      Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(ORC § 4301.637) (1995 Code, § 92.14)
Penalty, see § 92.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see Ohio
R.C. § 2923.121
§ 92.15   GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver's or commercial driver's license or an identification card as defined
in Ohio R.C. § 4301.61, or a military identification card issued by the United
States Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that
displays a picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport
was issued and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age
if the person was buying beer as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating
liquor, or that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was
buying any low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way;
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age;
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
92.29.
(ORC § 4301.639(A), (C)) (1995 Code, § 92.15)
§ 92.16   CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in Ohio R.C. §
4301.62(D) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC § 4301.64) (1995 Code, § 92.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than 6 months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and 6 months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of 6
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and 6 months, the
offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(ORC § 4301.99(B))
§ 92.17   HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(ORC § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(ORC § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 4303.99(D))
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.18   OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(ORC § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
(1995 Code, § 92.18)
§ 92.19   ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(ORC § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(B)) (1995 Code, § 92.19)
§ 92.20   SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(ORC § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.20)
§ 92.21   KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN
VIOLATION OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(ORC § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(ORC § 4399.99(B)) (1995 Code, § 92.22)
§ 92.22   INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(ORC § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(ORC § 4399.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.23)
§ 92.23   USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge
of any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal
business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub,
all as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4301.01.
(ORC § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(ORC § 4399.99(D)) (1995 Code, § 92.24)
§ 92.24   POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium,
alum, capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar
of lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous
or injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture of the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer,
or keep for sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so
adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor, or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(ORC § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(ORC § 4399.99(E)) (1995 Code, § 92.25)
§ 92.25   TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(ORC § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(ORC § 4399.99(A)) (1995 Code, § 92.26)
§ 92.26   NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(ORC § 4303.40)
§ 92.27   PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in Ohio R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction. If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator. The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the Court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested. The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(ORC § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 4301.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 92.29)
§ 92.28   LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
92.29:
      CARD HOLDER means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD means an identification card issued under Ohio R.C.
§§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by
another state.
      PERMIT HOLDER means the holder of a permit issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage; or
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (1)
or (2) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
Ohio R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b) and Ohio R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a)
and (D)(1)(b); and
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
Ohio R.C. §§ 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder; or
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of Ohio R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (1) or (2) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by Ohio R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or Ohio R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the county treasury.
(ORC § 4301.61)
§ 92.29   AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid; and
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of Ohio R.C. §§ 4301.22
(A)(1) or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
of this section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older; and
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by Ohio R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under Ohio R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52
shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance
in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(ORC § 4301.611)
§ 92.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see Ohio R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES; JUNK VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Application of the chapter
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Nuisances generally; injunctions; violation; contempt
   
93.04   Maintaining certain nuisances
   
93.05   Collection of cost of abating dangerous property condition; injunction;
rehabilitation
   
93.06   Trimming of trees and shrubbery to prevent obstruction
   
93.07   Closing of nuisance establishments
Unclean Habitations
   
93.10   Permitting unclean habitations
   
93.11   When habitations are deemed unsanitary
   
93.12   Order for abatement or vacation of premises
   
93.13   Enforcement of vacation order by Fire Chief or Police Chief
   
93.14   Enforcement through court proceedings
Privy Vaults and Cesspools; Wells; Refuse
   
93.20   Location of privy vaults, cesspools, and septic tanks
   
93.21   Unsanitary vaults
   
93.22   Removal of contents of vault
   
93.23   Deposit of dead animals, offal upon land or water
   
93.24   Defiling spring or well prohibited
   
93.25   Dumping of refuse in village prohibited
   
93.26   Abandoned refrigerators
   
93.27   Discarding litter prohibited
   
93.28   Power of village to fill or drain land
   
93.29   Open wells and cisterns
Weeds and Litter on Private Property
   
93.40   Keeping down weeds
   
93.41   Notice to owner to cut noxious weeds, remove litter; service
   
93.42   Fees for service and return
   
93.43   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice
   
93.44   Written return to county auditor; amount, a lien upon property
Cleaning of Premises
   
93.50   Order to clean premises
   
93.51   Sanitary inspection
   
93.52   Individual orders for abatement
   
93.53   Copy of resolution to be published
   
93.54   Unclean premises
   
93.55   Periodic inspection
   
93.56   Enforcement
   
93.57   Requirement of garbage collection carrier for each household dwelling
unit
Junk Vehicles and the Like
   
93.65   Legislative finding
   
93.66   Definitions
   
93.67   Prohibition of deposit, storage, maintenance or collection of junk,
junk motor vehicles, rubbish or trash
   
93.68   Junk vehicles declared nuisance
   
93.69   Vehicle left on private property
   
93.70   Vehicle left on public property
   
93.71   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles
   
93.72   Disposal of abandoned junk vehicles
   
93.73   Willfully abandoning junk vehicles
   
93.74   Disposal of junk vehicles
   
93.75   Junk vehicle disassembling
Storage on Porches or in Yards Prohibited in Residential Districts
   
93.90   Purpose
   
93.91   Prohibition
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to abate and prevent nuisances, see Ohio R.C. § 715.44
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01   APPLICATION OF THE CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within this municipality
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health
and the ordinances or orders of the local health district relative thereto, and
shall not be construed as modifying, repealing, limiting, or affecting in any
manner such laws, ordinances, or orders.
(1995 Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   That which is defined and declared by statutes or ordinances to be
a nuisance;
      (2)   Any place in or upon which lewdness, assignation, or prostitution
is conducted, permitted, continued, or exists, or any place in or upon which
lewd, indecent, lascivious or obscene films or plate negatives, film or plate
positives, films designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition films, or
glass slides either in negative or positive form designed for exhibition by
projection on a screen, are photographed, manufactured, developed, screened,
exhibited, or otherwise prepared or shown, and the personal property and
contents used in conducting and maintaining any such place for any such
purpose. This chapter shall not affect any newspaper, magazine, or other
publication entered as second class matter by the post office department;
      (3)   Any room, house, building, boat, vehicle, structure, or place where
beer or intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, possessed, or kept
in violation of law and all property kept and used in maintaining the same, and
all property designed for the unlawful manufacture or beer, or intoxicating
liquor and beer, or intoxicating liquor contained in the room, house, building,
boat, structure, or place described in this division (3) where the operation of
that place substantially interferes with public decency, sobriety, peace, and
good order. “Violation of Law” includes but is not limited to sales to any
person under the legal drinking age prohibited in Ohio R.C. § 4301.22(A) or
Ohio R.C. § 4301.69(A), and any violation of Ohio R.C. § 2913.46 or Ohio R.C. §
2925.03.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, association, partnership,
trustee, lessee, agent or assignee.
   PLACE. Includes any building, erection, or place or any separate part or
portion thereof or the ground itself.
(ORC § 3767.01)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty and procedure when injunction issued pursuant to division (3) of the
definition of nuisance is violated, see §
92.27
§ 93.03   NUISANCES GENERALLY; INJUNCTIONS; VIOLATION; CONTEMPT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who uses, occupies, establishes, or conducts a
nuisance, or aids and abets in the use, occupancy, establishment, or conduct of
a nuisance; the owner, agent, or lessee of an interest in any such nuisance;
any person who is employed in that nuisance by that owner, agent, or lessee;
and any person who is in control of that nuisance is guilty of maintaining a
nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in Ohio R.C. §§ 3767.03 through
3767.11.
      (2)   A criminal gang that uses or occupies any building, premises, or
real estate, including vacant land, on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in Ohio R.C. §§
3767.03 through 3767.11. As used in this division (A)(2), CRIMINAL GANG and
PATTERN OF CRIMINAL GANG ACTIVITY have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
2923.41.
(ORC § 3767.02)
      (3)   Any building, premises, or real estate, including vacant land, that
is used or occupied by a criminal gang on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity constitutes a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11
(ORC § 2923.43)
   (B)   In case of the violation of any injunction or closing order granted
under Ohio R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11, or of a restraining order or the
commission of any contempt of court in proceedings under such sections, the
court or, in vacation, a judge thereof, may summarily try and punish the
offender. The trial may be had upon affidavits or either party may demand the
production and oral examination or witnesses.
(ORC § 3767.07)
   (C)   Whoever is guilty of contempt under this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 3767.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisance, bond and notice, see Ohio R.C. § 3767.03
   Content of judgment and order, disposition of property seized, see Ohio R.C.
§ 3767.06
   Criminal gang activity, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2923.41 et seq.
   Priority of actions, evidence, costs; nuisances relating to liquor permit
premises, see Ohio R.C. § 3767.05
   Procedure in injunction action, see Ohio R.C. § 3767.04
§ 93.04   MAINTAINING CERTAIN NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
AGRICULTURE is defined in Ohio R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(ORC § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC § 3767.99(C))
§ 93.05   COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATING DANGEROUS PROPERTY CONDITION;
INJUNCTION; REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Collection of costs of abating dangerous property conditions.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         ABATEMENT ACTIVITY. Means each instance of any of the following:
            1.   Removing, repairing, or securing insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, abandoned, deserted, or open and vacant buildings or
other structures;
            2.   Making emergency corrections of hazardous conditions;
            3.   Abatement of any nuisance by the municipality or its agent
pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section.
         TOTAL COST. Means any costs incurred due to the use of employees,
materials, or equipment of the municipality or its agent pursuant to division
(A)(5) of this section, any costs arising out of contracts for labor,
materials, or equipment, and costs of service of notice or publication required
under this section.
      (2)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section may collect the total cost of abatement activities by any of the
methods prescribed in division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), or (A)(2)(c) of this
section.
         (a)   For each abatement activity in which costs are incurred, the
Clerk of the Legislative Authority of the municipality or its agent pursuant to
division (A)(5) of this section may certify the total costs of each abatement
activity, together with the parcel number or another proper description of the
lands on which the abatement activity occurred, the date the costs were
incurred for each abatement activity, and the name of the owner of record at
the time the costs were incurred for each abatement activity, to the County
Auditor who shall place the costs as a charge upon the tax list and duplicate.
The costs are a lien upon such lands from and after the date the costs were
incurred. The costs shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the
municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, as
directed by the Clerk of the Legislative Authority in the certification of the
total costs or in an affidavit from the agent delivered to the County Auditor
or County Treasurer. The placement of the costs on the tax list and duplicate
relates back to, and is effective in priority, as of the date the costs were
incurred, provided that the municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)
(5) of this section certifies the total costs within one year from the date the
costs were incurred. If a lien placed on a parcel of land pursuant to this
division is extinguished as provided in division (A)(8) of this section, the
municipality may pursue the remedy available under division (A)(2)(b) of this
section to recoup the costs incurred with respect to that parcel from any
person that held title to the parcel at the time the costs were incurred.
         (b)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section may commence a civil action to recover the total costs from the
person that held title to the parcel at the time the costs were incurred.
         (c)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section may file a lien on a parcel of land for the total costs incurred
under this section with respect to the parcel by filing a written affidavit
with the County Recorder of the county in which the parcel is located that
states the parcel number, the total costs incurred with respect to the parcel,
and the date such costs were incurred. The municipality or its agent may pursue
a foreclosure action to enforce the lien in a court of competent jurisdiction
or, pursuant to R.C. §§ 323.65 to 323.79, with the Board of Revision. The
municipality or its agent may elect to acquire the parcel by indicating such an
election in the complaint for foreclosure or in an amended complaint. Upon the
entry of a decree of foreclosure, the County Sheriff shall advertise and offer
the property for sale on at least one occasion. The minimum bid with regard to
the sale of the foreclosed property shall equal the sum of the taxes,
penalties, interest, costs, and assessments due and payable on the property,
the total costs incurred by the municipality or its agent with respect to the
property, and any associated court costs and interest as authorized by law. An
owner of the property may redeem the property by paying the minimum bid within
ten days after the entry of the decree of foreclosure. If an owner fails to so
redeem the property, and if the parcel is not sold for want of a minimum bid,
the property shall be disposed of as follows:
            1.   If the municipality or its agent elects to acquire the
property, the parcel shall be transferred to the municipality or its agent as
if the property were transferred by all owners in title to the municipality or
its agent in lieu of foreclosure as provided in R.C. § 5722.10;
            2.   If the municipality or its agent does not elect to acquire the
property, the parcel shall be forfeited to the state or to a political
subdivision or school district as provided in R.C. Chapter 5723.
            3.   When the municipality or its agent acquires property as
provided in this division (A)(2)(c), the property shall not be subject to
foreclosure or forfeiture under R.C. § 323.25 or R.C. Chapter 5721 or 5723, and
any lien on the property for costs incurred under this division (A) or for any
unpaid taxes, penalties, interest, charges, or assessments shall be
extinguished.
      (3)   This division (A) applies to any action taken by the municipality
or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section pursuant to R.C. §
715.26 or pursuant to Section 3 of Article XVIII, Ohio Constitution.
      (4)   (a)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section shall not certify to the County Auditor for placement upon the tax
list and duplicate and the County Auditor shall not place upon the tax list and
duplicate as a charge against the land the costs of any abatement activity
undertaken under division (A)(2) of this section if any of the following apply:
            1.   The abatement activity occurred on land that has been
transferred or sold to an electing subdivision as defined in R.C. § 5722.01,
regardless of whether the electing subdivision is still the owner of the land,
and the abatement activity occurred on a date prior to the transfer or
confirmation of sale to the electing subdivision.
            2.   The abatement activity occurred on land that has been sold to
a purchaser at sheriff’s sale or auditor’s sale, the abatement activity
occurred on a date prior to the confirmation of sale, and the purchaser is not
the owner of record of the land immediately prior to the judgment of
foreclosure nor any of the following:
               a.   A member of that owner’s immediate family;
               b.   A person with a power of attorney appointed by that owner
who subsequently transfers the land to the owner;
               c.   A sole proprietorship owned by that owner or a member of
that owner’s immediate family;
               d.   A partnership, trust, business trust, corporation, or
association of which the owner or a member of the owner’s immediate family owns
or controls directly or indirectly more than 50%.
            3.   The abatement activity is taken on land that has been
forfeited to this state for delinquent taxes, unless the owner of record
redeems the land.
         (b)   Upon valid written notice to the County Auditor by any owner
possessing an ownership interest of record of the land or by an electing
subdivision previously in the chain of title of the land that the costs of an
abatement activity undertaken under division (A)(2) of this section was
certified for placement or placed upon the tax list and duplicate as a charge
against the land in violation of this division, the County Auditor shall
promptly remove such charge from the tax duplicate. This written notice to the
County Auditor shall include all of the following:
            1.   The parcel number of the land;
            2.   The common address of the land;
            3.   The date of the recording of the transfer of the land to the
owner or electing subdivision;
            4.   The charge allegedly placed in violation of this division.
      (5)   The municipality may enter into an agreement with a County Land
Reutilization Corporation organized under R.C. Chapter 1724 wherein the County
Land Reutilization Corporation agrees to act as the agent of the municipality
in connection with removing, repairing, or securing insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, abandoned, deserted, or open and vacant buildings or
other structures, making emergency corrections of hazardous conditions, or
abating any nuisance, including high weeds, overgrown brush, and trash and
debris from vacant lots. The total costs of such actions may be collected by
the corporation pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, and shall be paid
to the corporation if it paid or incurred such costs and has not been
reimbursed by the owner of record at the time of the action or any other party
with a recorded interest in the land.
      (6)   In the case of the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation
that is the agent of the municipality, a notation shall be placed on the tax
list and duplicate showing the amount of the lien ascribed specifically to the
agent’s total costs. The agent has standing to pursue a separate cause of
action for money damages to satisfy the lien or pursue a foreclosure action in
a court of competent jurisdiction or with the Board of Revision to enforce the
lien without regard to occupancy. For purposes of a foreclosure proceeding by
the County Treasurer for delinquent taxes, this division does not affect the
lien priority as between a County Land Reutilization Corporation and the County
Treasurer, but the corporation’s lien is superior to the lien of any other
lienholder of the property. As to a direct action by a County Land
Reutilization Corporation, the lien for the taxes, assessment, charges, costs,
penalties, and interest on the tax list and duplicate is in all cases superior
to the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation, whose lien for total
costs shall be next in priority as against all other interests, except as
provided in division (A)(7) of this section.
      (7)   A County Land Reutilization Corporation acting as an agent of the
municipality under an agreement under this division (A) may, with the County
Treasurer’s consent, petition the court or Board of Revision with jurisdiction
over an action undertaken under division (A)(6) of this section pleading that
the lien of the corporation, as agent, for the total costs shall be superior to
the lien for the taxes, assessments, charges, costs, penalties, and interest.
If the court or Board of Revision determines that the lien is for total costs
paid or incurred by the corporation as such an agent, and that subordinating
the lien for such taxes and other impositions to the lien of the corporation
promotes the expeditious abatement of public nuisances, the court or board may
order the lien for the taxes and other impositions to be subordinate to the
corporation’s lien. The court or board may not subordinate the lien for taxes
and other such impositions to any other liens.
      (8)   (a)   When a parcel of land upon which a lien has been placed under
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(c) of this section is transferred to a County Land
Reutilization Corporation, the lien on the parcel shall be extinguished if the
lien is for costs or charges that were incurred before the date of the transfer
to the corporation and if the corporation did not incur the costs or charges,
regardless of whether the lien was attached or the costs or charges were
certified before the date of transfer. In such a case, the County Land
Reutilization Corporation and its successors in title shall take title to the
property free and clear of any such lien and shall be immune from liability in
any action to collect such costs or charges.
         (b)   If a County Land Reutilization Corporation takes title to
property before any costs or charges have been certified or any lien has been
placed with respect to the property under division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(c) of
this section, the corporation shall be deemed a bona fide purchaser for value
without knowledge of such costs or lien, regardless of whether the corporation
had actual or constructive knowledge of the costs or lien, and any such lien
shall be void and unenforceable against the corporation and its successors in
title.
      (9)   The municipality or County Land Reutilization Corporation may file
an affidavit with the County Recorder under R.C. § 5301.252 stating the nature
and extent of any proceedings undertaken under this division (A). Such an
affidavit may include a legal description of a parcel or, in lieu thereof, the
common address of the parcel and the permanent parcel number to which such
address applies.
(ORC § 715.261)
   (B)   Injunction may be granted for failure to comply. No person shall
erect, alter, repair or maintain any residential building, office, mercantile
building, workshop or factory, including a public or private garage, or other
structure, within the municipality unless all ordinances or resolutions enacted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 715.26 through 715.30 are fully complied with. In the
event any building or structure is being erected, constructed, altered,
repaired or maintained in violation of such ordinances or resolutions, or there
is imminent threat of violation, the municipality or the owner of any
contiguous or neighboring property who would be especially damaged by such
violation, in addition to any other remedies provided by law, may institute a
suit for injunction to prevent or terminate such violation.
(ORC § 715.30)
   (C)   Appropriation of property to rehabilitate; demolition or sale.
      (1)   In order to rehabilitate a building or structure that the
municipality has determined to be blighted property as defined in Ohio R.C. §
1.08, the municipality may appropriate, in the manner provided by Ohio R.C. §§
163.01 through 163.22, any such building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part. The municipality shall rehabilitate the building or
structure or cause it to be rehabilitated within two years after the
appropriation so that the building or structure is no longer a public nuisance,
insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, unhealthful or unsanitary, or a
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, in violation of a building
code or ordinance adopted under Ohio R.C. § 731.231. Any building or structure
appropriated pursuant to this division which is not rehabilitated within two
years shall be demolished.
      (2)   If, during the rehabilitation process, the municipality retains
title to the building or structure and the real property of which it is a part,
then within 180 days after the rehabilitation is complete, the municipality
shall appraise the rehabilitated building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part, and shall sell the building or structure and property at
public auction. The municipality shall advertise the public auction in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality once a week for three
consecutive weeks, or as provided in R.C. § 7.16, prior to the date of sale.
The municipality shall sell the building or structure and real property to the
highest and best bidder. No property that the municipality acquires pursuant to
this division shall be leased.
(ORC § 719.012)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical ordinances and codes by reference, see Ohio R.C. §
731.231
§ 93.06   TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO PREVENT OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, grow, or maintain any
shade tree or trees or shrubbery which will obstruct the proper distribution of
light from street lamps or which will obstruct the view of traffic approaching
an intersection by operators of vehicles approaching such intersection from
another direction.
   (B)   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet
above the surface of sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street or
roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands near
which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free
passage of light from such street lights to the street and sidewalk.
   (C)   The Council shall cause a written notice to be given to property
owners ordering them to trim or remove trees and shrubbery so that the trees
and shrubbery conform to divisions (A) and (B).
   (D)   If the property owner fails to trim or remove the trees and shrubbery
as ordered, the Council may cause the trees and shrubbery to be trimmed or
removed as ordered, and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon such real estate.
(1995 Code, § 93.02)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate shade trees, see Ohio R.C. § 715.20
§ 93.07   CLOSING OF NUISANCE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Any establishment, open lot, building, or the like, which does not
qualify for a permit under the provisions of the Zoning Code and specifically
§§
153.188 and
153.216 shall be determined to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The police shall be authorized to arrest the owner and/or persons
engaged in business at the establishment determined to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Any and all persons thus violating this section and/or other
provisions of the Zoning Code, where found applicable, shall be fined no more
than $100 and each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   The police shall be further authorized and directed to padlock and
secure any establishment determined to be a nuisance. This applies to
buildings, lots and other places where illegal business may be performed.
(1995 Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 82-O-7, passed 3-22-1982)
UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
§ 93.10   PERMITTING UNCLEAN HABITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lease, let, permit the occupancy of,
permit the continuation of the occupancy of, or continue the occupancy of a
structure or building or any portion thereof used for human habitation, unless
such structure or building or portion thereof is free from unclean and
unsanitary conditions as defined in §
93.11 and unless the provisions of the subsequent sections are complied with.
(1995 Code, § 93.10)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the landlord, see Ohio R.C. § 5321.04
   Duties of the tenant, see Ohio R.C. § 5321.05
   Injunction for failure to comply, see Ohio R.C. § 715.30
   Regulating occupied buildings, see Ohio R.C. § 715.29
§ 93.11   WHEN HABITATIONS ARE DEEMED UNSANITARY.
   A structure, building, or any portion thereof used for human habitation
shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition when any of the
following conditions exist:
   (A)   Infection with communicable disease;
   (B)   Absence of the toilet facilities required by law or ordinance;
   (C)   Presence of sewer gas;
   (D)   Dampness or wetness due to lack of repair;
   (E)   Accumulation of dirt, filth, litter, refuse, or other offensive or
dangerous substances likely to cause sickness among the occupants; or
   (F)   Defective or improperly used drainage, plumbing, or ventilation
facilities likely to cause sickness.
(1995 Code, § 93.11)
§ 93.12   ORDER FOR ABATEMENT OR VACATION OF PREMISES.
   If the local Board of Health ascertains from examination or reports of its
inspectors or sanitary officers or otherwise determines that a public nuisance,
as defined in §
93.11, exists in or upon any structure or building, or portion thereof, and has
notified the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the premises to abate the
nuisance or vacate the premises, it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the
occupancy of the premises or portion thereof until the nuisance has been
completely abated and the building or portion thereof has been rendered clean
and sanitary in accordance with the terms of the notices of the Board of
Health.
(1995 Code, § 93.12)
§ 93.13   ENFORCEMENT OF VACATION ORDER BY FIRE CHIEF OR POLICE CHIEF.
   When the notice or order of vacation has not been complied with, and the
Board of Health certifies such fact to the Fire Chief or Police Chief, together
with a copy of the order of notice, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or
Police Chief to enforce such notice or order of vacation and to cause the
premises to be vacated in accordance with the terms of the notice or order.
(1995 Code, § 93.13)
§ 93.14   ENFORCEMENT THROUGH COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Health certifies to the municipal legal officer
any failure to comply with any order or notice of vacation, with the request
that civil proceedings for the enforcement thereof be instituted, the municipal
legal officer shall institute any and all proceedings, either legal or
equitable, that may be appropriate or necessary for the enforcement of the
order or notice and the abatement of the nuisance against which the order or
notice was directed.
   (B)   These suits or proceedings shall be brought in the name of the
municipality.
   (C)   Proceedings under this section shall not relieve any party defendant
from criminal prosecution or punishment under this code or any other criminal
law or ordinance in force within the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 93.14)
PRIVY VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS; WELLS; REFUSE
§ 93.20   LOCATION OF PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   No owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises situated as to
permit connection with any sanitary sewer shall maintain or permit to be
maintained on or in connection with such premises any privy vault, cesspool,
septic tank, or other repository for human excreta.
(1995 Code, § 93.20)
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate refuse disposal, see Ohio R.C. § 715.43
   Power to regulate privies, see Ohio R.C. § 715.40
§ 93.21   UNSANITARY VAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner, lessor, occupant, or
person in charge of any premises upon which a privy vault, cesspool, or septic
tank is located to permit such vault, pool, or tank, or any building, fixture,
or device appurtenant thereto, to become foul, noisome, filthy, or offensive to
neighboring property owners.
(1995 Code, § 93.21)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.22   REMOVAL OF CONTENTS OF VAULT.
   Whenever any part of the waste in any privy vault or cesspool extends to a
point less than three feet below the surface of the ground adjacent thereto, or
whenever use of any such vault or cesspool is abandoned or where such use or
maintenance is prohibited by ordinance or health order, the owner, lessor,
occupant or person in charge of such premises shall cause the vault or cesspool
to be emptied of its contents, thoroughly cleaned, and disinfected, and if
abandoned, to be filled with clean earth or mineral matter to the level of the
adjacent ground.
(1995 Code, § 93.22)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.23   DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS, OFFAL UPON LAND OR WATER.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal or the offal from a
slaughter house, butcher's establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish, or other putrid substance or the contents of a
privy vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, meadow, public ground, market place, or common. No owner or
occupant of such place shall knowingly permit such thing to remain therein to
the annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate the nuisance
occasioned thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the existence thereof, or
after notice thereof in writing from the designated municipal official.
(ORC § 3767.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 3767.99(D)) (1995 Code, § 93.23)
§ 93.24   DEFILING SPRING OR WELL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously put a dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof, or other putrid, nauseous, or offensive substance into, or befoul, a
well, spring, brook, or branch of running water, or a reservoir of a
waterworks, of which use is or may be made for domestic purposes.
(ORC § 3767.18)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 3767.99(D)) (1995 Code, § 93.24)
§ 93.25   DUMPING OF REFUSE IN VILLAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, cause to be dumped or permit to
be dumped on any publicly or privately owned land or water in the municipality
any paper, brush, rubbish, tin cans, vegetation, garbage, or refuse of any
kind, without first having obtained a written license from the Mayor or other
designated municipal officer to do so. The Mayor or other designated municipal
officer shall issue a license permitting dumping of designated materials when
it appears that filling of the land is necessary and that the material
deposited will be immediately covered with earth or will not be objectionable
to the citizens of the neighborhood, or injurious to health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens.
(1995 Code, § 93.25)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.26   ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person's control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of 1-1/2 cubic feet or more and an opening of 50
square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a hinge, latch,
or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without
rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches
or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This section
shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer, warehouse or
repairer.
(ORC § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(ORC § 3767.99(B))
§ 93.27   DISCARDING LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him or
her, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements; or
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him or her, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located;
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive;
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he or she
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle; or
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle;
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle; or
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his or her
primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEPOSIT. To throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire,
paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, or anything else of
an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can, or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under Ohio
R.C. § 1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under Ohio R.C. § 1501.24,
forest-fire investigator appointed under Ohio R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy
district police officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law
enforcement officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(ORC § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(ORC § 3767.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 93.27)
§ 93.28   POWER OF THE VILLAGE TO FILL OR DRAIN LAND.
   (A)   The municipality may fill or drain any lot or land within its limits
on which water at any time becomes stagnant, remove all putrid substances from
any lot, and remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains, or private
property, laid in any natural watercourse, creek, brook, or branch, which
obstruct the water naturally flowing therein, causing it to flow back or become
stagnant, in a way prejudicial to the health, comfort, or convenience of any of
the citizens of the neighborhood. If such culverts or drains are of
insufficient capacity, the municipality may make them of such capacity as
reasonable to accommodate the flow of such water at all times.
   (B)   The Village Council may, by resolution, direct the owner to fill or
drain such lot, remove such putrid substance or other obstructions, and if
necessary, enlarge such culverts or covered drains to meet the requirements
thereof.
   (C)   After service of a copy of such resolution, or after a publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16, for two consecutive weeks, the owner, or the owner’s
agent or attorney, shall comply with the directions of the resolution within
the time therein specified.
   (D)   In case of the failure or refusal of such owner to comply with the
resolution, the work required thereby may be done at the expense of the
municipality, and the amount of money so expended shall be recovered from the
owner before any court of competent jurisdiction. This expense from the time of
the adoption of the resolution shall be a lien on such lot, which may be
enforced by suit in the Court of Common Pleas, and like proceedings may be had
as directed in relation to the improvement of streets.
   (E)   The officers connected with the Health Department of the municipality
shall see that this section is strictly and promptly enforced.
(ORC § 715.47) (1995 Code, § 93.28)
§ 93.29   OPEN WELLS AND CISTERNS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person, firm, or corporation, their agents or assigns
shall have or maintain within the corporate limits of the village, any open
well, cistern, or reservoir, which is not securely covered and protected in
such a manner as to prevent persons or animals from falling therein.
   (B)   Order to eliminate. In the event an unlawful well, cistern, or
reservoir is found to exist within the village, it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to immediately serve notice in writing on the owner, or his or
her agent or assign, ordering that the unlawful well, cistern, or reservoir be
eliminated within three days of the written notice.
   (C)   Violation. Failure to comply with the written order of the Police
Chief, by the owner, or his or her agent or assign as provided in division (B)
above, shall constitute a minor misdemeanor, punishable by the provisions set
forth in §
93.99. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 93.29) (Ord. 10-1949, passed 5-2-1949)
WEEDS AND LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.40   KEEPING DOWN WEEDS.
   (A)   Any person owning, possessing or having charge of land within the
municipality shall keep such property free and clear from all noxious weeds and
rank vegetation by cutting and removing the same.
(Am. Ord. 97-O-18, passed 4-17-1997)
   (B)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the municipality
shall be required to cut all such weeds and vegetation on the lots owned or
controlled by them whenever such weeds and vegetation grow to a height
exceeding 8 inches.
(Am. Ord. 2014-O-1, passed 4-14-2014)
   (C)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any weeds such as the following:
Noxious Weeds
Noxious Weeds
Apple of Peru              Marestail
Buckthorn                  Mile-A-Minute Weed
Canada Thistle             Musk Thistle
Columbus Grass             Oxeye Daisy
Corncockle                 Perennial Sowthistle
Cressleaf Groundsel        Poison Hemlock
Curly Dock                 Purple Loosestrife
Dodder                     Quackgrass
Field Bindweed             Russian Knapweed
French Weed                Russian Thistle
Giant Hogweed              Serrated Tussock
Hairy Whitetop (Ballcress) Shatter Cane
Hedge Bindweed             Wild Carrot
Heart-podded Hoary Cress   Wild Garlic
Horsenettle                Wild Mustard
Japanese Knotweed          Wild Onion
Johnsongrass               Wild Parsnip
Leafy Spurge
Kudzu
 
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
(O.A.C. §§ 901:5-27-06 and 901:5-37-01)
      (3)   Any bushes or shrubs, including their horticultural varieties, such
as the following:
 
European Barberry Russian Olive
Honeysuckle       Autumn Olive
Multiflora Rosa   Jet Bead
Common Buckthorn  Glossy Buckthorn
Privets           Bushclover
Winged Euonymus   Burning Bush
 
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 8 inches.
(1995 Code, § 93.40) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-1, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-O-02,
passed 3-23-2016)
§ 93.41   NOTICE TO OWNER TO CUT NOXIOUS WEEDS, REMOVE LITTER; SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon written information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in
the municipality and are about to spread or mature seeds, the Village Manager,
or his or her representative, shall cause written notice to be served on the
owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of such land, notifying him or
her that noxious weeds are growing on such lands and that they must be cut and
destroyed within five days after service of such notice.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Village Manager, or his or her representative,
that litter has been placed on lands in a municipality, and has not been
removed, and constitutes a detriment to public health, the Village Manager, or
his or her representative, shall cause a written notice to be served upon the
owner and, if different, upon the lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the
littered land, notifying him or her that litter is on the land, and that it
must be collected and removed within 15 days after the service of the notice.
   (C)   As used in this section and §
93.43, LITTER includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (D)   If the owner or other person having charge of the land is a
nonresident of the municipality whose address is known, the notice shall be
sent to his or her address by certified mail. If the address of the owner or
other person having charge of the land is unknown it is sufficient to publish
the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   (E)   This section does not apply to land being used under a municipal
building or construction permit or license, a municipal permit or license, or a
conditional zoning permit or variance to operate a junkyard, scrap metal
processing facility, or similar business, or a permit or license issued
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734, Ohio R.C. §§ 4737.05 through 4737.12, or
Ohio R.C. Chapter 6111.
(ORC § 731.51) (1995 Code, § 93.41) (Ord. 2016-O-05, passed 4-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2019-O-1, passed 1-28-2019)
§ 93.42   FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Police Chief, any police officer, or Clerk of the Village Council may
make service and return of the notice provided for in §
93.41 and shall be allowed the same fees as that provided for service and
return of summons in civil cases before a magistrate.
(ORC § 731.52) (1995 Code, § 93.42)
§ 93.43   PROCEDURE WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the lands mentioned
in §
93.41 fails to comply with the notice required by such section, the Village
Council shall cause such noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed or such litter
removed and may employ the necessary labor to perform the task. All expenses
incurred shall, when approved by the Village Council, be paid out of the money
in the treasury of the municipality not otherwise appropriated.
(ORC § 731.53) (1995 Code, § 93.43)
§ 93.44   WRITTEN RETURN TO COUNTY AUDITOR; AMOUNT AS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   The Village Council shall make a written return to the County Auditor of
their action under §§
93.41,
93.42, and
93.43, with a statement of the charges for their services, the amount paid for
labor, the fees of the officers serving the notices, and a proper description
of the premises. These amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the date of entry and be
collected as other taxes and returned to the municipality with the general
fund.
(ORC § 731.54) (1995 Code, § 93.44)
CLEANING OF PREMISES
§ 93.50   ORDER TO CLEAN PREMISES.
   On or before May 10 in every year, the Village Manager shall cause a notice
or proclamation to be inserted in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the municipality, ordering persons to clean thoroughly and provide
proper drainage for all lands, yards, vaults, cesspools, sheds, and barns and
to cause all tin cans, trash, and other unclean and unsightly matter to be
removed therefrom on or before 30 calendar days following the date of the
notice or proclamation.
(1995 Code, § 93.50) (Am. Ord. 2012-O-7, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 93.51   SANITARY INSPECTION.
   Thereafter in the month of May of each year the County Health Officer or in
his or her absence the Chief of Police shall make a thorough sanitary
inspection of all public and private property in the municipality and shall
transmit his or her report together with his or her recommendations to the
Village Council on or before June 1. A copy of the report shall also be sent to
the State Department of Health.
(1995 Code, § 93.51)
§ 93.52   INDIVIDUAL ORDERS FOR ABATEMENT.
   If, on inspection, it is found that the published order has not been
complied with as to any lot or parcel of ground, Council shall by resolution
direct the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the land within ten days to
abate the nuisance, setting forth the nature of the violation and the acts
required to be done. The resolution shall provide that on failure or refusal to
comply with the order, the work required will be done by the municipality, with
the amount expended thereof to be a valid claim against the owner or occupant
and charged as a lien on the land and recovered by the municipality by suit in
a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 93.52)
§ 93.53   COPY OF RESOLUTION TO BE PUBLISHED.
   A copy of the resolution adopted under §
93.52 may be served personally or at the usual place of residence of the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of the land or by registered mail, or in lieu of
such service, may be published for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 93.53)
§ 93.54   UNCLEAN PREMISES.
   (A)   Cleanliness required.
      (1)   Every owner of, and every agent in charge of, a tenement house,
lodging house, tourist home, tourist cabin or hotel, or part thereof, shall
cause to be kept thoroughly clean all parts of the premises not within the
occupied apartments.
      (2)   No person shall place filth, urine, or fecal matter in any place
other than provided for the same or keep filth, urine, or fecal matter in his
or her apartments or on his or her premises any length of time as to create a
nuisance, and every tenant shall keep his or her apartment in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (3)   The walls of courts and shafts, unless built in a light color brick
or stone, shall be thoroughly whitewashed or painted a light color and shall be
so maintained. Whitewash or paint shall be renewed as required by the local
Board of Health.
   (B)   Prohibition against accumulation of water. It shall be unlawful at any
time for the owner, occupant, or person in charge of any lot or parcel of
ground to cause or permit water to accumulate thereon and become stagnant, to
permit culverts, drains, or natural watercourses thereon to become obstructed,
or to cause or permit any putrid or unsanitary substance to accumulate thereon.
(1995 Code, § 93.54)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.55   PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   Independent of the annual cleanup and inspection provided for in §§
93.50 and
93.51, the County Health Officer or Police Chief shall make periodic inspection
of properties within the municipality and shall report all violations of §
93.54 to Council, who shall thereupon by resolution proceed to order the
nuisances abated as provided in §§
93.52 and
93.53.
(1995 Code, § 93.55)
§ 93.56   ENFORCEMENT.
   In case of failure or refusal to comply with any resolution of Council, the
work required thereby may be done at the expense of the municipality and the
amount of money expended therefor shall be a valid claim against the owner,
occupant, or person in charge and a lien on the land which may be enforced by
suit in any court of competent jurisdiction. Proceedings under this section
shall not relieve any party defendant from criminal prosecution or punishment
for violation of any section of this code or any other criminal law or
ordinance in force within the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 93.56)
§ 93.57   REQUIREMENT OF GARBAGE COLLECTION CARRIER FOR EACH HOUSEHOLD DWELLING
UNIT.
   (A)   Every owner, lessee or head of a household dwelling unit shall have a
responsible garbage collection carrier to remove or dispose of the waste and
garbage material accumulating or emanating from such dwelling unit.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and subject to a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 97-O-27, passed 5-27-1997)
JUNK VEHICLES AND THE LIKE
§ 93.65   LEGISLATIVE FINDING.
   (A)   Junk, junked vehicles, rubbish or trash exist within the village on
private property that constitute a serious threat and growing menace injurious
and inimical to the public health, safety, morals, senses and general welfare
of the residence thereof.
   (B)   The existence of such conditions:
      (1)   Contributes substantially and increasingly to the spread of disease
and to losses by fire and accident, necessitating excessive and
disproportionate expenditures of public funds for the preservation of public
health and safety, for the maintenance of adequate police, fire and accident
protection and for other public services and facilities;
      (2)   Constitute an economic and social liability;
      (3)   Substantially impairs and arrests the sound growth of the
community; and
      (4)   Creates a public nuisance.
   (B)   The elimination of this menace on private property requires the
village to exercise its police power by regulating and entering on private
property to remove junk, junk vehicles, rubbish or trash and abate the public
nuisance for the general welfare of the citizens of the village.
(1995 Code, § 93.65) (Ord. 82-O-8, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 93.66   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle:
      (1)   Extensively damaged and incapable of operation on the public
streets for any reason, including missing or expired license plates, collision
damage, inoperative or missing essential components;
      (2)   (a)   Left on the public right-of-way of any street or highway, or
upon any public property for a period exceeding 48 hours; or
         (b)   Left upon any privately-owned property for a period of time
exceeding 48 hours, without the permission of the owner of the property.
      (3)   Three years old or older (ORC 4513.63); or
      (4)   Having a fair market value of $1,500 or less (ORC 4513.63).
   HISTORICAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is 25 years old and that is
owned solely as a collector's item and for participation in club activities,
tours, parades and similar uses but in no event for general transportation.
(ORC § 4503.181)
   INOPERABLE TRAILER, SEMI-TRAILER, or MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle missing
wheels, tires, windshield, motor, or transmission or which has been so damaged
as to appear not safely operable. Any vehicle that remains parked in one
location for more than 30 days shall be presumed to be inoperable.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle incapable of operation on the public
streets for any reason, including missing or expired license plates, collision
damage, inoperative or missing essential components.
   UNLICENSED TRAILER, SEMI-TRAILER, or MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle not
displaying a current, valid license plate, including any validation sticker,
other than a vehicle exempt under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4503.
(1995 Code, § 93.66) (Am. Ord. 88-O-25, passed 11-23-1988; Am. Ord. 88-025,
passed 11-23-1988; Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 93.67   PROHIBITION OF DEPOSIT, STORAGE, MAINTENANCE OR COLLECTION OF JUNK,
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES, RUBBISH OR TRASH.
   No person in control of any real estate in the village, whether owner,
tenant, lessee, occupant or having possessory interests therein, shall allow
any junk, junk motor vehicles, rubbish or trash to remain upon such premises
after the Village Manager, or his or her representative, has caused a written
notice to be served upon such person requesting that within ten days of the
receipt of the notice, the junk, junk motor vehicle, rubbish or trash shall be
removed from the property in accordance with §
93.74. If such person fails to remove the junk, junk motor vehicle, rubbish or
trash, then the Village Manager, or his or her representative, shall cause the
same to be removed.
(1995 Code, § 93.67) (Ord. 82-O-8, passed 3-22-1982; Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed
5-22-2000; Am. Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 4-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2023-O-1, passed 5-8-
2023)
§ 93.68   JUNK VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any inoperative vehicle, not bearing current state license, either
sitting on village streets or in view of the public, shall be considered a
nuisance.
   (B)   The Village Manager, or his or her representative, shall be authorized
to have junk vehicles disposed.
   (C)   The burden of proof shall be upon the owner to show:
      (1)   Ownership; and
      (2)   State license.
(1995 Code, § 93.68) (Ord. 82-O-21, passed 9-13-1982; Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed
5-22-2000; Am. Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.69   VEHICLE LEFT ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall store or park for longer than 48 hours any unlicensed or
inoperable trailer, semi-trailer, or motor vehicle in any residence district
other than in a garage. Each day's violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
(1995 Code, § 93.69) (Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle left on private residential or private agricultural property without
the permission of person having right to possession of property, see Ohio R.C.
§ 4513.60
§ 93.70   VEHICLE LEFT ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his or her representative may order into
storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle which has
been left on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes
of vehicular travel, or on or within the right-of-way of any road or highway,
for 48 hours or longer without prior notification of the Chief of Police of the
reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in that place. The Chief of Police or his
or her representative shall designate the place of storage ofany motor vehicle
ordered removed by him or her.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his or her representative shall immediately
cause a search to be made of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to
ascertain the owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage
by the Chief of Police or his or her representative, and, if known, shall send
notice to the owner or lienholder at his or her last known address by certified
mail with return receipt requested, that the motor vehicle will be declared a
nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten days of the date of mailing
of the notice. The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim it on
payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal and storage, and
presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of
title to the motor vehicle.
   (C)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of mailing of the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in §
93.71, the Chief of Police, without charge to any party, or his or her
representative shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county in which the
place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with the
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 4513.63. On presentation of the affidavit, the
Clerk of Courts shall without charge issue a certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Chief of Police or his or her
representative. If the vehicle is to be disposed of to a junk yard or other
facility as provided in §
93.71, the Chief of Police or his or her representative shall execute in
triplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
describing the motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and
that all requirements of this section have been complied with. The Chief of
Police or his or her representative shall retain the original of the affidavit
for his or her records, and shall furnish two copies to the owner of the junk
yard or other facility. On presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the owner
of the junk yard or other facility, the Clerk of Courts of the county shall
issue to the owner a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances.
   (D)   Whenever the owner of a junk yard or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
owner shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of title to the motor
vehicle in his or her own name if, within ten days of the receipt of the
affidavit, the vehicle is dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the
affidavit are delivered to the Clerk of Courts.
(1995 Code, § 93.70) (Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Storing vehicles in possession of law enforcement officers or left on public
property, see Ohio R.C. § 4513.61
§ 93.71   DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   Unclaimed motor vehicles ordered into storage pursuant to §§
93.69 and
93.70 shall be disposed of at the order of the Chief of Police to a junk yard
or scrap metal processing facility as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4737.05, or to any
other facility owned by or under contract with the village for the disposal of
the motor vehicles, or shall be sold by the Chief of Police, or licensed
auctioneer at public auction, after giving notice thereof by advertisement,
published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16. Any moneys accruing
from the disposition of an unclaimed motor vehicle that are in excess of the
expenses resulting from the removal and storage of the vehicle shall be
credited to the general fund of the county or the municipal corporation, as the
case may be.
(ORC § 4513.62) (1995 Code, § 93.71) (Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 93.72   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his or her representative shall order an
abandoned junk motor vehicle to be photographed by a law enforcement officer in
the place where abandoned. The officer shall record the make of the motor
vehicle, the serial number when available, and shall also detail the damage or
missing equipment to substantiate the value of $1,500 or less. The Chief of
Police shall immediately dispose of the abandoned junk motor vehicle to a junk
yard or scrap metal processing facility as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4737.05, or
to any other facility owned by or under contract with the village for the
disposal of such motor vehicles. The records and photographs relating to the
abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be retained by the law enforcement agency
ordering the disposition of the vehicle for a period of at least two years. The
law enforcement agency shall execute in quadruplicate an affidavit, as
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the motor vehicle and
the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all requirements of this
section have been complied with, and shall sign and file the same with the
Clerk of Courts of the county in which the motor vehicle was abandoned. The
Clerk of Courts shall retain the original of the affidavit for his or her
files, shall furnish one copy thereof to the Registrar, one copy to the junk
yard or to the facility handling the disposal of the vehicle, and one copy to
the law enforcement agency ordering the disposal, who shall file the copy with
the records and photograph relating to the disposal. Any moneys arising from
the disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be deposited in the
general fund of the village.
   (B)   Notwithstanding §
93.70, any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of §
93.66 which was remained unclaimed by the owner or lienholder for a period of
ten days or longer following notification as provided in §
93.70 may be disposed of as provided in this section.
(ORC § 4513.63) (1995 Code, § 93.72) (Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 93.73   WILLFULLY ABANDONING JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in §
93.66 on private property for more than 48 hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking, or on or within the right-of-way of any road or highway, for 48 hours
or longer without notification to the Chief of Police or his or her
representative of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in that place.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has been
so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
(ORC § 4513.64) (1995 Code, § 93.73) (Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.74   DISPOSAL OF JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent a person from storing or keeping
on private property with the permission of the person having the right to the
possession of the property, a historical motor vehicle possessing proper
historical license plates, except that applicable building and zoning code
regulations may require a person having such permission to conceal or store
such historical motor vehicle in accordance therewith.
   (B)   The Village Manager, or his or her representative, may cause a written
notice to be served upon the person having the right to possession of the
property on which a junk motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt
of the notice, the junk motor vehicle either shall be housed in a garage or
other suitable structure, or shall be removed from the property.
   (C)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle on private
property for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
(1995 Code, § 93.74) (Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000; Am. Ord. 2018-O-1,
passed 4-9-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.75   JUNK VEHICLE DISASSEMBLING.
   (A)   Any person, business, or corporation who desires to operate a business
of junking by disassembling automobiles, trucks, and other metal components,
must first establish a designated place of business.
   (B)   The designated place of business must, in compliance with the
established building codes, enclose the land.
   (C)   A ledger shall be maintained at all times for audit purposes in
compliance with the village's earning tax laws.
   (D)   It shall be against the provisions of this section for any person,
business, or corporation to engage in the disassembly of junk cars or other
junk materials on the village streets or in open vacant lots.
   (E)   No owner, resident, or absentee landlord shall permit this type of
work to be done on his or her open vacant lot.
   (F)   Any person, business, or corporation found in violation of this
section shall have the junk vehicle or the like confiscated by the village, and
proceeds from the salable item shall be turned over to the village general fund
for recreational purposes.
(1995 Code, § 93.75) (Ord. 80-O-27, passed 5-12-1980; Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed
5-22-2000)
STORAGE ON PORCHES OR IN YARDS PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 93.90   PURPOSE.
   Council makes a legislative finding that the storage of materials on the
porch or in the yard (front, back and/or sides) of a residence in any
residential district may be contrary to public safety and conducive to blight,
deterioration, trash, haven for rodents and decrease in land values, and
therefore constitutes a nuisance unless appropriate provisions (e.g. shed,
building) are constructed, with valid permit, to accommodate such storage.
(Ord. 2000-O-51, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 93.91   PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No storage of any kind is permitted on the front porch or in the front
yard of a residence in a residential district except where a building is under
construction with a valid building permit.
   (B)   No storage of any kind is permitted on any porch or yard (front, back
and/or sides) where it limits the access of windows and doors and creates a
fire and safety hazard to its residents and the public.
(Ord. 2000-O-51, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 93.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which
another penalty is not already provided, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 98-O-23, passed 4-12-1998)
   (B)   Litter. Whoever violates any provision of §
93.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing
court may, in addition to or in lieu of the penalty provided in this division,
require a person who violates §
93.27 to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on waters
of the state.
(ORC § 3767.99)
   (C)   Junk vehicles and the like.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
93.65 et seq. in the first offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree and may be fined not more than $250 and imprisoned not more than 30
days.
      (2)   For the second or subsequent offense, the offender shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree and may be fined not more than $500 and
imprisoned not more than sixty days.
(Ord. 82-O-8, passed 3-22-1982; Am. Ord. 99-O-91, passed 5-22-2000)
   (D)   Storage on porches or in yards prohibited in residential districts.
Whoever violates §§
93.90 et seq. is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and subject to a
fine of not less than $100.
(1995 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 2000-O-51, passed 10-10-2000)
CHAPTER 94: SANITATION AND HEALTH
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Application
   
94.02   Village to provide hospitalization for indigents (Repealed)
Food and Food Handlers
   
94.10   Definitions
   
94.11   Permitting unclean premises
   
94.12   Equipment
   
94.13   Cleanliness of persons employed
   
94.14   Health of persons employed
   
94.15   Unsanitary food
Communicable Diseases
   
94.20   Attending schools and other public places when infected
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01   APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within this municipality
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health
and to the sale of pure foods and drugs, and the ordinances or orders of the
local health district, and shall not be construed as modifying, repealing,
limiting or affecting in any manner such laws, ordinances or orders.
§ 94.02   VILLAGE TO PROVIDE HOSPITALIZATION FOR INDIGENTS (REPEALED).
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Ordinance 2002-O-48, passed
September 9, 2002.)
FOOD AND FOOD HANDLERS
§ 94.10   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   FOOD. Breads, meats, fruits, grains vegetables, milk, juices, and all other
foodstuffs, food products or food ingredients in the natural or processed
state. The expression shall be deemed to include all canned, bottled,
dehydrated or otherwise preserved foods.
   FOOD HANDLER. Wholesale or retail grocers, bakers, butchers, restaurant or
lunch stand operators, dairymen, hucksters, fruit stand operators, canners, or
packers of foodstuffs, cold storage house operators, or other persons
commercially engaged in processing, handling, transporting, storing, or selling
food.
§ 94.11   PERMITTING UNCLEAN PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any food handler to keep or possess food except
when in original cans, packages or containers, in any room, building,
establishment or other place, unless such place:
   (A)   Is adequately lighted to reveal any dirt or unwholesome condition
which might exist;
   (B)   Has smooth, tight floors, walls and ceilings, free from projections,
cracks and crevices and kept clean and sanitary at all times by painting,
scrubbing and cleaning to prevent the accumulation of dirt and filth;
   (C)   Is adequately ventilated and screened against flies and other insects;
   (D)   Is free from all vermin and rodents;
   (E)   Is provided with an ample supply of pure and uncontaminated running
water with sanitary drainage into a cesspool or sewer;
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.12   EQUIPMENT.
   Every food handler's establishment shall be equipped with an adequate supply
of furniture, machinery, implements, containers, and utensils for the proper
conduct of such business, and it shall be unlawful for any food handler to have
in possession or use in connection with such business any furniture, machine,
implement, container, utensil, or other article of equipment which is not
thoroughly clean, sanitary, and free from rust or corrosion.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.13   CLEANLINESS OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
   Every food handler or employee thereof who is engaged in handling food,
except when such food is in original cans, packages or containers, shall keep
his or her person, aprons, services, caps and other articles of clothing
thoroughly clean and free from dirt and filth. Failure to observe the
provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and the employer of
any person violating the same shall be deemed an aider and abettor and may be
prosecuted as if he or she were the principal offender.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.14   HEALTH OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person suffering from cholera, dysentery,
epidemic or streptococcus sore throat, paratyphoid fever, poliomyelitis (acute
anterior), scarlet fever, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, or who is a carrier of
the organism of any such disease, or who is suffering from any venereal
disease, to serve or handle food, except when such food is in original cans or
containers. The employer of any person violating this section shall be deemed
an aider and abettor and may be prosecuted as if he or she were the principal
offender.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.15   UNSANITARY FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any food handler to prepare, manufacture,
possess, sell, or expose or offer for sale any food which is impure, moldy,
tainted, rancid, unwholesome, or otherwise unsanitary or which is adulterated
or misbranded.
   (B)   The regulations of the public health council governing food service
operations and providing uniform sanitation standards are adopted and declared
to be the standards of purity intended and required by this chapter.
Penalty, see § 94.99
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
§ 94.20   ATTENDING SCHOOLS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES WHEN INFECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person infected with or exposed to infection of
influenza, infantile paralysis, cerebrospinal meningitis, measles, chicken pox,
smallpox, whooping cough, cholera, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or other
communicable disease, to attend any public, parochial or private school,
theater or other public gathering. The parents, guardian or other person having
custody or control of any child under 18 years of age, violating this section,
shall be deemed aiders and abettors and may be prosecuted as if they were
principal offenders.
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to secure its inhabitants from contagious diseases,
Ohio R.C. § 715.37
§ 94.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $100.
(1995 Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
95.02   Opening permit required
   
95.03   Application and cash deposit
   
95.04   Restoration of pavement
   
95.05   Barriers around excavations
   
95.06   Warning lights
   
95.07   Sidewalk construction by the village
   
95.08   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
95.09   Street or sidewalk obstruction
   
95.10   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
95.11   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean of ice and snow
   
95.12   Ramped curbing for persons with disabilities
   
95.13   Flagpole along right-of-way
   
95.14   Altering or injuring marker or monument
Construction and Repair
   
95.25   Construction and repair may be required
   
95.26   Resolution of necessity
   
95.27   Notice to construct or repair
   
95.28   Assessments of costs against owner
   
95.29   Proceedings may include different owners
   
95.30   Making and levying assessments
Changes in Streets
   
95.40   Change of name, vacating or narrowing streets by petition
   
95.41   Change of name, vacating or narrowing streets without petition
   
95.42   Notice; exception
   
95.43   Publication of notice
   
95.44   Effect of order of vacation
   
95.45   Effect on public utility easements
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Assessments generally, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 727
   Vacation or establishment of streets by court, notice and hearings, see Ohio
R.C. §§ 723.09 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of this municipality shall accept, lay out, open, improve,
grade, pave, curb or light any street or other way, unless the street or way
has been accepted or opened or otherwise has received the legal status of a
public street or way prior to the effective date of this code; or unless the
street or way corresponds in location and extent with a street or way shown on
a recorded plat which has been legally accepted by the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 95.01)
Statutory reference:
   Power over streets and sidewalks, see Ohio R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01(P),
723.01, 723.011, 723.02, and 729.01
§ 95.02   OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized municipal
official or the authorized employees or agents of such municipal official, to
make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the
municipality unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to
commencement of the work.
(1995 Code, § 95.02)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.03   APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the Mayor or other proper municipal officer. Application
shall be made on a form prescribed by the Village Council, giving the exact
location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be
excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be
issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the Mayor or other proper municipal officer, conditioned
upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and restoration of all
surfaces disturbed.
(1995 Code, § 95.03)
§ 95.04   RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of an authorized
municipal official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the municipality may proceed
without notice to make such fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to
in §
95.03 shall be deemed forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
street repair fund of the municipality, except such part demanded and paid to
the permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the
municipality for restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such
services performed by the municipality should exceed the amount of the deposit,
the Clerk or other proper municipal officer shall proceed to collect the
remainder due from such permittee.
(1995 Code, § 95.04)
§ 95.05   BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(1995 Code, § 95.05)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.06   WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night shall install and maintain at least
two illuminated warning lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of such obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved shall exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional lamp for
each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(1995 Code, § 95.06)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.07   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION BY THE VILLAGE.
   It shall be the duty of the engineer of the municipality or, if none exist,
another authorized municipal official, to supervise construction or repair of
sidewalks within the municipality. He or she shall cause specifications to be
prepared for the construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit
the same to the Village Council for approval. When the specifications are
approved, the Village Council shall advertise for proposals to do all the work
which may be ordered by the municipality in construction and repair of
sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year,
with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient
sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The Village Council, if it
deems advisable, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work
with different parties.
(1995 Code, § 95.07)
§ 95.08   UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the
municipality, by throwing or letting the same fall upon the pavement of any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some
sufficient protection over the pavement.
(1995 Code, § 95.08)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.09   STREET OR SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, public ground,
or other public way within the municipality by erecting thereon any fence,
structure or building, or permitting any fence, structure or building to remain
thereon unless authorized by the Village Manager. In the event the Village
Manager does not authorize the person to obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk,
public ground, or other public way, said person may appeal the Village
Manager’s decision to the Village Council within 10 business days of the date
of the denial. Each day that any unauthorized fence or building is permitted to
remain upon such street, alley, sidewalk, public ground, or other public way
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 2012-O-6, passed 6-11-2012)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(1995 Code, § 95.09)
Cross-reference:
   Driving upon sidewalk prohibited, see §
72.58
§ 95.10   MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land bordering on any street
or sidewalk shall permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(1995 Code, § 95.10)
Penalty, see § 95.99
Cross-reference:
   Placing injurious materials and litter upon streets or highways prohibited,
see §
72.62
§ 95.11   DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN OF ICE AND SNOW.
   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or gutter
shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free from
snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or gutters
all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which will
ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and ice
has accumulated.
(ORC § 723.011) (1995 Code, § 95.11)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.12   RAMPED CURBING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   All new curbs that are authorized by the municipality, and all existing
curbs which are part of any reconstruction, shall have a ramp with nonslip
surface built into the curb at each pedestrian crosswalk so that the sidewalk
and street blend to a common level. These ramps shall be not less than 40
inches wide and shall, insofar as feasible, be constructed in accordance with
the standard drawings and specifications for curb ramps of the state Department
of Transportation.
(ORC § 729.12) (1995 Code, § 95.12)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.13   FLAGPOLE ALONG RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A property owner in the municipality may install a flagpole between
the sidewalk and curb along the right-of-way of any public street or highway
adjacent to his or her property. A property owner may also install underground
lighting for the display of the flag. Installation of the flagpole and holder
shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   The flagpole holder shall be embedded in concrete, flush with the
sidewalk or sodded area, and possess a cap or cover which shall be used when
the holder is not used for the purpose of displaying the American flag;
      (2)   The holder shall not exceed two inches in diameter and shall be
installed not less than one foot from the curb;
      (3)   Underground lighting for the flagpole shall be situated within a
reasonable distance to the holder and meet all underwriters' requirements
governing installation. The highest part of the lighting fixture shall at all
times be flush with the sidewalk or sodded area in which it is embedded; and
      (4)   At no time shall the flag, flagpole, or holder limit or restrict
the view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, nor shall a flag, flagpole, or
holder be installed that comes in physical contact, or is likely to come in
physical contact, with overhead wiring.
   (B)   The municipality may require the issuance of a permit for installation
of flagpoles but shall not charge the property owner a permit fee or an
inspection fee in excess of $1 per installation.
(ORC § 723.012) (1995 Code, § 95.13)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.14   ALTERING OR INJURING MARKER OR MONUMENT.
   (A)   No person shall alter, deface, injure or destroy any marker or
monument placed along, upon, or near a public highway by the proper authorities
to mark the boundary thereof, or for any other purpose.
(ORC § 5589.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 5589.99(B))
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 95.25   CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR MAY BE REQUIRED.
   In addition to the power conferred upon the municipality under Ohio R.C. §
727.01 to construct sidewalks, curbs or gutters and levy an assessment
therefor, the Village Council may require the construction or repair of
sidewalks, curbs or gutters within the municipality by the owners of lots or
lands abutting thereon, and upon the failure of such owners to construct or
repair such sidewalks, curbs or gutters within the time prescribed in the
resolution adopted under §
95.26, may cause such sidewalks, curbs or gutters to be constructed or repaired
and assess the total cost thereof against the lots or land abutting thereon,
notwithstanding the provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 727.03 and 727.05.
(ORC § 729.01)
§ 95.26   RESOLUTION OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   When it is deemed necessary by the municipality to require the
construction or repair of sidewalks, curbs, or gutters within the municipality
by the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon, the Village Council shall
cause plans, specifications, and an estimate of the cost of such construction
or repair to be prepared, showing the location and dimensions of such
sidewalks, curbs or gutters and the specifications for the construction or
repair thereof, and to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Village
Council.
   (B)   After such plans, specifications and estimate of cost have been filed,
as provided in this section, the Village Council may declare the necessity for
the construction or repair of such sidewalks, curbs or gutters by the adoption
of a resolution which shall:
      (1)   Approve the plans, specifications and estimate of cost of the
proposed construction or repair on file as provided by this section;
      (2)   Describe the lots and lands abutting upon the sidewalks, curbs or
gutters to be constructed or repaired by the termini of the improvement or by
the street address;
      (3)   Set forth that such sidewalks, curbs or gutters shall be
constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots or lands abutting thereon in
accordance with the specifications on file in the office of the Clerk of the
Village Council;
      (4)   Set forth the time within which such sidewalks, curbs or gutters
shall be constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and lands abutting
thereon, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of service of
notice under §
95.27 on the owner of the lots or lands;
      (5)   State than in the event such sidewalks, curbs or gutters are not
constructed or repaired by the owners of the lots and lands abutting thereon in
accordance with such plans and specifications and within the time prescribed in
this resolution, the municipality will so construct or repair such sidewalks,
curbs or gutters and assess the costs thereof against the lots and lands
abutting thereon.
(ORC § 729.02)
§ 95.27   NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Notice of the passage of a resolution of necessity under §
95.26 shall be served by the Clerk of the Village Council, or a person
designated by such Clerk, upon the owners of the lots or lands abutting upon
the sidewalks, curbs or gutters to be constructed or repaired in the same
manner as service of summons in civil cases, or by certified mail addressed to
such owner at his or her last known address or to the address to which tax
bills are sent, or by a combination of the foregoing methods. If it appears by
the return of service or the return of the certified mail notice that one or
more of the owners cannot be found, such owners shall be served by publication
of the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality. The return of the person serving the notice or a certified copy
thereof or a returned receipt for notice forwarded by certified mail accepted
by the addressee or anyone purporting to act for him or her shall be prima
facie evidence of the service of notice under this section. The notice shall
also set forth the place where the specifications governing the construction or
repair of such sidewalks, curbs or gutters are on file, the time within which
the owner of such lot or parcel of land may construct or repair the sidewalks,
curbs or gutters, and that in the event the owner does not construct or repair
the sidewalks, curbs or gutters in accordance with the specifications and
within such time, the municipality will construct or repair such sidewalks,
curbs or gutters and assess the costs thereof against the lot or land of the
owner.
(ORC § 729.03)
§ 95.28   ASSESSMENTS OF COSTS AGAINST OWNER.
   (A)   Upon the expiration of the time within which sidewalks, curbs or
gutters shall be constructed or repaired by the owner of the lots or lands
abutting thereon as set forth in the resolution adopted under §
95.26, the sidewalks, curbs or gutters not constructed or repaired by the
owners of the lots and lands abutting thereon shall be constructed or repaired
by the municipality in accordance with the resolution adopted under §
95.26, and the Village Council shall, upon the completion of such construction
or repair, assess the costs thereof against the lots or lands abutting thereon.
   (B)   In anticipation of the collection of the costs of construction or
repair of such sidewalks, curbs or gutters from the owners of the lots or lands
abutting thereon, the Village Council may provide for the issuance of bonds or
notes and the proceeds thereof shall be used to pay for the construction or
repair of such sidewalks, curbs or gutters.
(ORC § 729.04)
§ 95.29   PROCEEDINGS MAY INCLUDE DIFFERENT OWNERS.
   In all proceedings pertaining to the construction or repair of sidewalks,
curbs or gutters under this subchapter or Ohio R.C. §§ 729.01 through 729.08,
sidewalks, curbs or gutters upon different streets abutting upon lots or lands
owned by different owners may be included in the same resolution, notice,
contract, ordinance, or other proceedings.
(ORC § 729.05)
§ 95.30   MAKING AND LEVYING ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Estimated assessments. Upon completion of the construction or repair
of sidewalks, curbs or gutters under this subchapter, the total cost of such
construction, repair, or installation as defined in division (B) shall be
ascertained and reported to the Village Council by its Clerk, and the Village
Council shall cause a list of estimated assessments to be prepared. Such list
shall include the total cost of such construction, repair, or installation to
each lot or land abutting upon such construction, repair, or installation and
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Village Council and be
available for public inspection.
(ORC § 729.07)
   (B)   Notice of assessment; objection.
      (1)   The Village Council shall cause a notice to be published for three
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipal
corporation or as provided in R.C. § 7.16, stating that such list of estimated
assessments has been made and is on file in the office of the Clerk of the
Village Council for the inspection and examination of persons interested
therein.
      (2)   If any person objects to an assessment on such list, the person
shall file the objection in writing with the Clerk of the Village Council
within two weeks after the expiration of the notice provided for in division
(B)(1) of this section.
(ORC § 729.08)
   (C)   Assessment ordinance. The Clerk of the Village Council shall deliver
the objections received under division (B) of this section to the Village
Council. The Village Council shall review the written objections and shall
adopt an ordinance levying upon the lots and lands enumerated in the list of
estimated assessments the amount set forth on such list with such changes or
corrections as the Village Council shall determine to be proper after
consideration of the written objections filed under division (B) of this
section. Such ordinance shall state the number of annual installments, not
exceeding ten, over which the assessments shall be payable and shall establish
a period of time during which the assessments shall be payable in cash.
(ORC § 729.09)
   (D)   Assessment proceedings. The provisions of Ohio R.C. §§ 727.26 through
727.43, inclusive, shall apply to and govern the proceedings taken under and
the assessments levied under this subchapter. The proceedings taken under this
subchapter shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of Ohio R.C. §
727.40.
(ORC § 729.10)
Statutory reference:
   Assessments generally, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 727
CHANGES IN STREETS
§ 95.40   CHANGE OF NAME, VACATING OR NARROWING STREETS BY PETITION.
   The Village Council, on petition by a person owning a lot in the
municipality requesting that a street or alley in the immediate vicinity of
such lot be vacated or narrowed, or the name thereof changed, upon hearing, and
upon being satisfied that there is good cause for such change of name,
vacation, or narrowing, that it will not be detrimental to the general
interest, and that it should be made, may, by ordinance, declare such street or
alley vacated, narrowed or the name thereof changed. The Village Council may
include in one ordinance the change of name, vacation, or narrowing of more
than one street, avenue or alley. The original ordinance or a certified copy
thereof shall be recorded in the official records of the County Recorder.
(ORC § 723.04)
§ 95.41   CHANGE OF NAME, VACATING OR NARROWING STREETS WITHOUT PETITION.
   (A)   The Village Council may, when there are two or more streets, avenues
or alley of the same name in the municipality, by ordinance and without
petition therefor, change the name of any such street, avenue or alley so as to
leave only one to be designated by the original name.
   (B)   When, in the opinion of the Village Council, there is good cause for
vacating or narrowing a street or alley, or any part thereof, and that such
vacation or narrowing will not be detrimental to the general interest, it may,
by ordinance and without petition therefor, vacate or narrow such street or
alley or any part thereof. The original ordinance or a certified copy thereof
shall be recorded in the official records of the County Recorder.
(ORC § 723.05)
§ 95.42   NOTICE; EXCEPTION.
   Notice of the intention of the Village Council to vacate any street, alley,
avenue, or part thereof shall be given as provided in §
95.43, except when written consent to such vacation is filed with the Village
Council by the owners of the property abutting the part of the street or alley
proposed to be vacated, in which case such notice shall not be required.
(ORC § 723.06)
§ 95.43   PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   No street or alley shall be vacated or narrowed unless notice of the
pendency and prayer of the petition under R.C. § 723.04 is given by publishing,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, for six consecutive
weeks preceding action on such petition, or as provided in R.C. § 7.16
preceding action on the petition. Where no newspaper is of general circulation
in the municipality, notice shall be given by posting the notice in three
public places therein six weeks preceding such action. Action thereon shall
take place within three months after the completion of the notice.
(ORC § 723.07)
§ 95.44   EFFECT OF ORDER OF VACATION.
   The order of the Village Council vacating or narrowing a street or alley
which has been dedicated to public use by the proprietor thereof shall, to the
extent to which it is vacated or narrowed, operate as a revocation of the
acceptance thereof by the Village Council, but the right-of-way and easement
therein of any lot owner shall not be impaired by such order.
(ORC § 723.08)
§ 95.45   EFFECT ON PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   When any street, alley or public highway, or a portion thereof, is vacated
or narrowed by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
or the provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapter 723, and the relocation of any conduits,
cables, wires, towers, poles, sewer lines, steam lines, pipelines, gas and
water lines, tracks, or other equipment or appliances of any railroad or public
utility, whether owned privately or by any governmental authority, located on,
over or under the portion of the street, alley, or highway affected by such
vacation or narrowing, is not required for purposes of the municipality,
including urban renewal, any affected railroad or public utility shall be
deemed to have a permanent easement in such vacated portion or excess portion
of such street, alley or highway for the purpose of maintaining, operating,
renewing, reconstructing, and removing such utility facilities and for purposes
of access to such facilities.
(ORC § 723.041)
§ 95.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already provided shall be subject to the penalty as prescribed in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 95.99)
CHAPTER 96: SPOT BLIGHT
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Determination of blighted premises
   
96.03   Notice prior to determination of blighted premises
   
96.04   Alternatives to acquisition
   
96.05   Public hearing prior to acquisition
   
96.06   Procedure at hearing
   
96.07   Legislative determination
   
96.08   Acquisition and blight elimination by Village Manager
   
96.09   Terms of sale; prohibition of recurrence of blight
   
96.10   Unconstitutionality
§ 96.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED PREMISES. Real property which because of age, obsolescence,
dilapidation, deterioration, lack of maintenance or repair or any combination
thereof constitute a fire hazard, a health hazard, a substantial and
unreasonable interference with the reasonable and lawful use and enjoyment of
other property within the neighborhood or a factor seriously depreciating
property values in the neighborhood.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The acquisition of blighted premises, the demolition of a
structure or structures thereon, the making of site improvements, including the
construction or reconstruction thereon, or the sale of property for use in
accordance with the Zoning Code and the Ohio Basic Building Code. REDEVELOPMENT
may include the construction of improvement by the village of any building for
public use or resale to private persons.
   REHABILITATION. The restoration, rebuilding or conservation of blighted
premises by improvement, modernization or repair of a structure or structures
thereon to bring it into conformance with applicable building and zoning
provisions followed by the Village of Lincoln Heights.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.02   DETERMINATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall submit to the Village Manager a list
of properties that meet the definition of blighted premises.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall present a report to the Village Council
which includes the list of properties. The report must include the location of
the premises and identification of any owners of the properties.
   (C)   The report must state, with particularity, all factors that warrant a
determination that the premises is blighted.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.03   NOTICE PRIOR TO DETERMINATION OF BLIGHTED PREMISES.
   (A)   Prior to issuing a report under §
96.02, the Village Manager shall first cause the Building Department to order
the owner(s), by lawful order, to take action to eliminate the blighted
condition within 30 days after notice.
   (B)   Notice must be given by:
      (1)   Posting the order on the premises;
      (2)   Personal delivery to owner(s);
      (3)   Mailing the order to the last known address of the owner; or
      (4)   Publishing once a week for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation a notice of the issuance of the order relating to the
premises and directing the owner to contact the director of buildings and
inspections in regard to such order.
   (C)   Any premises that has not first received orders to correct the
condition, may not be included in the report to Council.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.04   ALTERNATIVES TO ACQUISITION.
   Where the notice provisions have been followed and the owner(s) fails to
comply, prior to acquisition the village may, at its option, clear the blighted
structure of debris, demolish the blighted structure or barricade such
structure, as outlined in §§
93.56,
150.27, and
150.65 of the Lincoln Heights Municipal Code.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.05   PUBLIC HEARING PRIOR TO ACQUISITION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a report from the Village Manager, Council shall set a
date for a public hearing in regard to the existence of blight on the premises
and necessity for acquisition by the village in order to eliminate blight and
prevent the recurrence thereof. The hearing shall be held not less than 30 nor
more than 45 days from the time such report of the Village Manager is received.
Upon the fixing of a day for a public hearing, the Clerk of Council shall
promptly cause notice to be given to the owner or owners of record of the
premises and the occupants thereof, if any, or the person in charge of the
premises, if any, notifying them of the time and place of the hearing and
apprising them of their right to appear at such hearing to show cause why the
premises should not be declared to be blighted or why the village should not
acquire the premises for the purpose of eliminating blight thereon and
preventing the recurrence of blight.
   (B)   Notice of such hearing shall be given by at least two of the
following:
      (1)   Posting the notice thereof on the premises;
      (2)   Personal service;
      (3)   Mailing such order or notice to the last known address of the owner
or person in charge of the premises or to the occupants thereof; or
      (4)   Publishing the notice once a week for three consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Village of Lincoln Heights.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.06   PROCEDURE AT HEARING.
   (A)   At the hearing required by §
96.05, the report of the Village Manager shall be read and shall constitute
prima facie evidence of blight on the premises and need for the Village of
Lincoln Heights to acquire such premises in order to eliminate the blight and
prevent recurrence of blight thereon. Thereafter, the owner, person in charge,
occupant of the premises or any person having an interest therein may proceed
to show cause why the premises should not be declared blighted or the village
should not acquire the premises for the purposes of eliminating blight or
preventing its recurrence. If the owner, person in charge or occupant of the
premises does appear and presents testimony for the purpose of showing cause
why the premises should not be declared blighted or the village should not
acquire the premises for the purposes of eliminating the blight and preventing
recurrence of blight, the Village Manager, or duly appointed representative,
shall proceed to present evidence to Council of the existence of blight on the
premises and need to acquire the premises for elimination of the blight and the
prevention of the recurrence of the blight thereon. Members of the public
residing in the neighborhood or who may otherwise have knowledge of the
condition of such premises may address the Council at the hearing in regard to
the proposed action of the village.
   (B)   Council may adjourn the hearing, from time to time, and grant
continuances to the Village Manager, the Village Manager's representative or
the owner, person in charge or occupant of the premises, in order for them to
present further argument or evidence in regard to the existence of blight on
the premises or the need for the village to acquire the premises in order to
eliminate blight or prevent the recurrence of blight thereon.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.07   LEGISLATIVE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Council, upon completion of the hearing, shall at the same or a
subsequent meeting decide and make findings as to:
      (1)   Whether or not the premises are blighted in accordance with this
chapter; and
      (2)   Whether are not it is necessary for the village to acquire the
premises in order to eliminate blight thereon and to prevent the recurrence of
blight.
   (B)   Should Council determine that the premises are not blighted as defined
in this chapter, it may direct the Village Manager to take action under any
other provisions of the Zoning Code of the Village of Lincoln Heights, the
Lincoln Heights Municipal Code or the Ohio Revised Code in order to correct any
illegal conditions on the premises.
   (C)   Should Council determine that the premises are blighted but that it is
not necessary for the village to acquire the premises in order to eliminate the
blight and prevent its recurrence in the future, it may direct the Village
Manager to take appropriate action in regard thereto short of acquisition.
   (D)   If Council finds that the premises are blighted as defined in this
chapter and that acquisition by the village is necessary in order to eliminate
the blight and prevent the recurrence of blight on the premises, the Village
Manager shall be and hereby is authorized to proceed to take the proper action
to acquire the premises, eliminate the blight and prevent the recurrence of
blight in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.08   ACQUISITION AND BLIGHT ELIMINATION BY VILLAGE MANAGER.
   Upon determination of Council that premises are blighted and that
acquisition by the village is necessary in order to eliminate the blight and
prevent recurrence of blight upon the premises, the Village Manager is hereby
authorized to:
   (A)   Acquire the premises by purchase;
   (B)   Acquire the premises by court action exercising the village's
constitutional right of eminent domain pursuant to the procedures outlined in
Ohio R.C. Chapters 163 and 719; and
   (C)   After acquisition, to eliminate the blight by:
      (1)   Demolition and clearance of the premises by an independent
contractor or village forces, or clearance if demolition of structures is not
necessary;
      (2)   Rehabilitation by an independent contractor or by village forces;
      (3)   Sale of the blighted premises to a purchaser upon terms and
conditions providing for the elimination of the blight and prevention of its
recurrence;
      (4)   Sale of the premises after demolition and clearance (if not needed
for municipal purposes) for use or development in accordance with applicable
Lincoln Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code provisions; or
      (5)   Any combination of the above provisions.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.09   TERMS OF SALE; PROHIBITION OF RECURRENCE OF BLIGHT.
   (A)   Premises sold under the provisions of this chapter shall provide in
the instrument of conveyance that the purchaser, successors and assigns, shall
rehabilitate or develop the premises in accordance with all applicable
provisions of the Lincoln Heights Municipal Code and Zoning Code regulations of
the Village of Lincoln Heights, and shall henceforth use the premises in
accordance with all applicable provisions of the Lincoln Heights Municipal Code
and Zoning Code of the Village of Lincoln Heights and shall eliminate any
blight thereon and prevent the recurrence of blight. Such provisions shall be
both covenants and conditions of the conveyance and the instrument of
conveyance shall further provide for reversion to the Village of Lincoln
Heights if blight does recur upon the premises or the use, development or
rehabilitation thereof is not carried out in accordance with the terms of the
conveyance and the provisions of the Lincoln Heights Municipal Code and the
Zoning Code of the Village of Lincoln Heights and shall provide for a tight of
immediate re-entry by the Village of Lincoln Heights in such event.
   (B)   The Village Manager is hereby authorized to negotiate for the sale of
premises acquired under the provisions of this chapter which are not to be
retained by the village. No land shall be sold by the Village Manager except
pursuant to a special ordinance of Council authorizing such sale which
ordinance shall prescribe in detail the terms and conditions upon which such
sale is to be made and the covenants to be contained in the deed from the
village to the redeveloper.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 96.10   UNCONSTITUTIONALITY.
   In the event any section of this chapter or any part of any section of this
chapter is declared to be unconstitutional, such decision shall in no way
affect the operation of any other section or part thereof of this chapter, and
the remainder of this chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2002-O-12, passed 3-11-2002)
CHAPTER 97: PARADES, MARCHES OR PROCESSIONS
Section
   
97.01   Prohibition
   
97.02   Permit required
   
97.03   Application for permit
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01   PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct or participate in
any parade, march or procession, other than a wedding or funeral procession,
upon any public highway except upon a permit issued by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 95-O-13, passed 11-27-1995)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The person, group, organization or association sponsoring the parade shall
apply for a permit in writing not less than 48 hours in advance of the date of
the parade, march or procession.
(Ord. 95-O-13, passed 11-27-1995)
§ 97.03   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for such permit shall be upon forms provided by the Village
Manager or person designated by the Village Manager, and shall state:
   (A)   The name and address of the sponsoring group, association or
organization;
   (B)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the officers of the
organization or persons authorized to speak for or on behalf of such
organization and to represent the organizations in all matters pertaining to
the parade permit;
   (C)   The date, time and proposed route of the parade;
   (D)   The nature of the parade, i.e., whether it will consist of or include:
      (1)   Pedestrians;
      (2)   Vehicles;
      (3)   Animals;
      (4)   A combination of any of the above; and
      (5)   The approximate size or length of the parade.
   (E)   Those traffic laws or regulations which the group, association or
organization sponsoring the parade wish to be waived in regard to it;
   (F)   Whether or not it is desirous that parking be restricted along the
parade route or any part of the parade route;
   (G)   If the parade, march or procession involves the use of motor vehicles
or animals, the organization, group or association sponsoring the parade shall
obtain liability insurance and file a copy of the policy with the Village
Manager, which policy shall:
      (1)   List the sponsoring group, association or organization and the
Village of Lincoln Heights as named insureds; and
      (2)   Provide liability coverage against all hazards arising from the
parade for personal injuries in the amounts of $100,000 per person, $1,000,000
per accident and for property damages in the amount of $50,000.
(Ord. 95-O-13, passed 11-27-1995)
§ 97.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever is found guilty of violating this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 95-O-13, passed 11-27-1995)
CHAPTER 98: BASKETBALL COURTS
Section
   
98.01   Rules
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 RULES.
   The following rules apply to all basketball courts located on Village owned
or leased property:
   (A)   Play at your own risk.
   (B)   Area closed from dusk to dawn.
   (C)   No littering.
   (D)   No pets.
   (E)   No firearms.
   (F)   No drugs or alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   No smoking or tobacco use of any kind.
   (H)   No chairs on the court.
   (I)   No profanity.
   (J)   No fighting or bullying.
(Ord. 2012-O-10, passed 10-9-2012)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter for which penalty is not
already provided in another Chapter of the Code of Ordinances shall be guilty
of a minor misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 2012-O-10, passed 10-9-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
111.   ADVERTISING
   
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
   
113.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
   
114.   JUNKYARDS
   
115.   HOTELS, MOTELS AND ROOMING HOUSES
   
116.   RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND HOMES
   
117.   TAXICABS
   
118.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Fortune teller; license required
   
110.02   Pawnshops
   
110.03   Professional bondsmen
   
110.04   Firearms and dangerous weapons; license fee
   
110.05   Electrical contractors
   
110.06   Home-improvement contractor
   
110.07   False representation
General Licensing Provisions
   
110.20   License required
   
110.21   Application for license
   
110.22   Issuance of license
   
110.23   Date and duration of license; fee
   
110.24   License not transferable
   
110.25   Display of license certificate
   
110.26   Revocation or suspension
   
110.27   Appeal and review
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01   FORTUNE TELLER; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, not legally licensed to do so, shall represent himself or herself
to be an astrologer, fortune teller, clairvoyant, or palmister in the village.
(1995 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 7A-1962, passed 10-15-1962)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02   PAWNSHOPS.
Editor’s Note:
   Effective July 22, 1994, the municipal regulations concerning pawnbrokers
were preempted by the provisions of Ohio R.C. § 4727.16, which established that
the state shall be the sole regulator of pawnbrokers. For state regulations
concerning pawnbrokers, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 4727.
§ 110.03   PROFESSIONAL BONDSMEN.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm, or corporation, other than a surety
company licensed under the laws of Ohio, shall demand or receive, directly or
indirectly compensation for becoming surety or providing surety on any bail
bond, recognizance bond, appeal bond, or other court bond required to be filed
in the village in any court with jurisdiction in the village, unless such
person, firm, or corporation shall have been licensed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Fees. Any responsible person 21 years of age or older, or any firm or
corporation may obtain from the Village Auditor a license to do business as a
professional bondsman or payment of an annual license fee of $50. All licenses
shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they are issued. Renewals may
be issued between December 1 and December 31 for the ensuing year.
   (C)   Compensation limitation.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall demand or receive as
compensation for becoming surety or providing surety on any bail bond,
recognizance bond, appeal bond, or other court bond in excess of 10% of the
amount of such bond. Except, a minimum charge of $10 may be made on bonds in
amounts of less than $100.
      (2)   The person paying such compensation shall be furnished a receipt
showing the amount of the bond and the amount of compensation charged.
   (D)   Revocation, suspension, and supervision of licenses. The Council shall
exercise supervision over all persons, firms, or corporations doing business as
professional bondsmen and shall be authorized at any time to direct the Finance
Director to revoke or suspend the license of any such person, firm, or
corporation found guilty by the Council of extortion or dishonesty in
connection with such business.
   (E)   Signing of bond without license. No person, firm, or corporation shall
sign any bail, recognizance bond or appeal bond, or other court bond unless he
or she has adequate surety. Adequate surety shall be deemed to be in the amount
of a sum at least double the amount of the bond signed.
(1995 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 1-1962, passed 2-5-1962)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.04   FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Every retail dealer in firearms, ammunition for firearms, or dangerous
weapons shall pay a license fee of $50 per annum, and such license may be
granted by the Clerk on written application of such dealer. Where a dealer
deals only in shotguns and rifles of regulation size, manufactured for hunting
and sporting purposes only, and the ammunition therefor, the license fee shall
be the sum of $10. The application shall set forth the place of business of the
applicant, the nature of the business, the names of all partners if a
partnership, and the names of all officers if a corporation. The Clerk may
issue the license if he or she is satisfied that the applicant is of good
repute in the conduct of such business, and that the conduct of such business
will not be detrimental to the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   If a dealer licensed under the provisions of division (A) above
carries on the business of pawnbroker or second hand dealer, it shall be
unlawful for him or her to sell any firearms or dangerous weapons except shot
guns and rifles of regulation size manufactured for hunting and sporting
purposes only.
(1995 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 14-1949, passed 9-19-1949)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.05   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall offer or contract to perform the
construction, installation, alteration, or repair of any electrical wiring or
electrical equipment, excepting the installation and maintenance of electric
elevators, whether gratuitously or for compensation, or represent himself or
herself either publicly or privately as being ready, willing or able to perform
such work, or undertake to perform such work within the village on premises not
owned or actually occupied as a residence or place of business by him or her,
unless he or she shall have been licensed by the village as an electrical
contractor.
   (B)   Issuance fee. Electrical contractor licenses shall be issued for the
calendar year ending December 31, or if issued during the year, then for the
balance thereof, renewable for subsequent periods under conditions hereinafter
set forth and under such proper rules as the Village Manager may establish. The
original or renewal license fee shall be $25 per year. However, the fee for an
original license issued after June 30 of any year shall be 1/2 of the annual
fee.
   (C)   Proof of competence. If the applicant for a license is neither
licensed in the City of Cincinnati nor in Hamilton County, but has heretofore
carried on an electrical contracting business in this village, and is now in
business in this village, he or she shall, on applying for a Lincoln Heights
license, be granted a license for the remainder of the year, so long as the
Building Inspector certifies that his or her previous work has been
satisfactory, according to the Building Code. If an applicant for a license is
presently licensed, either by the City of Cincinnati or by Hamilton County as
an electrical contractor, he or she shall register such license with the
Building Inspector and pay the required fee before doing electrical contract
work in this village.
(1995 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 80-O-38, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 110.06   HOME-IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   License required. No person shall offer or contract to perform the
alteration or repair of any structure or part thereof, whether gratuitously or
for compensation, or represent himself or herself either publicly or privately
as being ready, willing or able to perform such work, or undertake to perform
such work within the village on premises not owned or actually occupied as a
residence or place of business by him or her, unless he or she has been
licensed by the village as a home-improvement contractor.
   (B)   Issuance fee. Home-improvement contractor licenses shall be issued for
the calendar year ending December 31, or if issued during the year, then for
the balance thereof, renewable for subsequent periods under conditions
hereinafter set forth and under proper rules as the coordinator or the Building
Inspector may establish. The original or renewal license fee shall be $25 per
year. The fee for an original license issued after June 30 of any year shall be
1/2 of the annual fee.
   (C)   Proof of competence. If the applicant for a license is neither
licensed in the City of Cincinnati, nor in Hamilton County, but has heretofore
carried on a home-improvement contracting business in this village, and is now
in business in this village, he or she shall, on applying for home-improvement
licenses, be granted a license for the remainder of the year, so long as the
Building Inspector certifies that his or her previous work has been
satisfactory according to the Building Code. If applicant for a license is
presently licensed either by the City of Cincinnati, or by Hamilton County as a
contractor, he or she shall register such license with the Building Inspector
and pay the required home-improvement fee before doing home-improvement
contract work in this village.
(1995 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 80-O-39, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 110.07   FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   Any and all persons, business, commercial, industrial, real estate
firms, consultants and other promotional entities located in the village must
use the village and Lincoln Heights Township for a permanent address in
promoting any capital gain, whereas that capital gain may be taxable, whether
private, tangible, intangible or otherwise.
   (B)   Any persons, business, commercial, industrial, real estate firms,
consultants and other promotional entities located in the village found guilty
of falsely representing the location of land or business lying within the
boundaries of the village or township, resulting in the loss of taxable
revenues by the village, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
110.99.
   (C)   The property fiscal officer of the village shall demand an independent
inspection and audit of the financial records of any offender for the last five
years in order to ascertain any loss of revenue that the village may have lost
to another taxing authority. If there is any loss of revenue, the applicable
provisions of
Chapter 39 shall be enforced.
(1995 Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 85-O-19, passed 8-26-1985)
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.20   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in any trade, business, or
profession without first applying for and obtaining a license from the Village
Manager or other duly authorized issuing authority.
(1995 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 98-O-14, passed
2-9-1998)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.21   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically provided,
shall be made to the Village Manager in writing on forms to be furnished by him
or her, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, and of each officer, partner, or
business associate;
      (2)   The place of business and the present occupation;
      (3)   The place of residence for five years preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and possessory interest in the location of the intended
business or enterprise;
      (5)   The official stamp of the Tax Commissioner attesting to the fact
that the applicant has registered such business with the tax provisions of
Chapter 39; and
      (6)   If for a vendor, a description of the goods or merchandise to be
sold.
   (B)   The renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the original application, unless otherwise provided. With each
original or renewal application the applicant shall deposit a fee of $15 for
the license requested. It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false
statement or representation in the application.
(1995 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 7-1959, passed
3-2-1959; Am. Ord. 82-O-1, passed 2-22-1982; Am. Ord. 82-O-9, passed 3-22-1982;
Am. Ord. 85-O-1, passed 1-14-1985; Am. Ord. 98-O-14, passed 2-9-1998; Am. Ord.
2000-O-38, passed 10-30-2000)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.22   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   On receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the proper fee,
the Village Manager, shall forthwith deposit the fee in the treasury and issue
to the applicant a proper license certificate. The aforesaid deposit is not
refundable for any reason.
(1995 Code, § 110.22) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 98-O-14, passed
2-9-1998; Am. Ord. 2018-O-2, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 110.23   DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE; FEE.
   The license fee shall be $100.00.
(Ord. 2018-O-3, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and no license shall be assigned or transferred.
(1995 Code, § 110.24) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.25   DISPLAY OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   Every licensee carrying on a business at a fixed location shall keep posted
in a prominent place on the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their certificate at all times, and wherever requested by
any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the same.
(1995 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 7-1959, passed
3-2-1959)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.26   REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be refused or revoked by the Village Manager at any
time for any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or on conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or local law or
ordinance involving moral turpitude. Such refusal or revocation shall become
effective on notice served on such applicant or licensee or posted on the
premises affected.
   (B)   As a preliminary to a revocation, the Village Manager may issue an
order suspending such license which shall become effective immediately on
service of written notice to such licensee. Such notice shall specify the
reason for suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of
the license may be obtained. On compliance with such conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
(1995 Code, § 110.26) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 98-O-14, passed
2-9-1998)
§ 110.27   APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her
license has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case
may be, shall have the right to appeal within ten days to the Village Council
from such denial, revocation, or suspension.
   (B)   Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the Clerk of Council
who shall fix the time and place for hearing, the same to be not later than one
week thereafter. The Clerk shall notify the Village Manager and all members of
Council of the time and place of such hearing. Likewise, the Clerk of Council
shall notify the applicant or licensee by personal service or by certified mail
of the time and place of such hearing.
   (C)   If after such hearing, a majority of the members of Council present at
such meeting declare in favor of the applicant, such license shall forthwith be
issued, or fully reinstated as the case may be, otherwise the order appealed
from shall become final.
(1995 Code, § 110.27) (Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 98-O-14, passed
2-9-1998; Am. Ord. 2000-O-38, passed 10-30-2000)
§ 110.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with the provisions
of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined not
more than $100. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-1948, passed 1-19-1948; Am. Ord. 7-1959, passed 3-2-1959)
   (B)   Fortune teller. Whoever violates any provision of §
110.01 shall be fined not more than $100, or imprisoned for not less than 30
days nor more than three months, or both.
(Ord. 7A-1962, passed 10-15-1962)
   (C)   False representation. Any persons, business, commercial, industrial,
real estate firms, consultants and other promotional entities who violate the
provisions of §
110.07 shall be guilty of misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than six months or both.
(Ord. 85-O-19, passed 8-26-1985)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Registration required
   
111.02   Identification required on printed matter
   
111.03   Police to keep file on registrants
   
111.04   Parents responsible for minor
   
111.05   Newspapers and magazines
   
111.06   Lewd material; littering; trespass
   
111.07   Misleading advertising in the sale of eyeglasses
   
111.08   Employment advertisement
   
111.09   Posting bills on private property
   
111.10   Posting bills on streets
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01   REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, club, association, or corporation shall distribute,
or post any commercial advertising media, circulars, pamphlets, literature,
notices, or other printed matter of any nature within the village unless such
person shall first register with the Police Department of this village, and
shall pay a registration fee of $1, except as provided herein.
   (B)   Churches, schools, and charitable organizations shall be exempt from
the payment of any fee under the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.02   IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED ON PRINTED MATTER.
   Permission to register shall be granted to no person, firm, club,
association, or corporation unless the name of such person, firm, club,
association, or corporation responsible for the posting or distribution of such
advertising media, pamphlets, handbills, circulars, literature, or other
printed matter shall be conspicuously indicated on the material to be
distributed.
(1995 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
§ 111.03   POLICE TO KEEP FILE ON REGISTRANTS.
   The Police Department shall maintain a file copy for a period of not less
than six months of all material circulated by registrants under the provisions
of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
§ 111.04   PARENTS RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   Either or both parents of any minor child, shall be deemed and held
responsible for any violation of the provisions of this chapter by such minor
child.
(1995 Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05   NEWSPAPERS AND MAGAZINES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to be an infringement on the right of
freedom of the press or speech, and shall not be applicable toward the regular
distribution of newspapers, magazines, or other duly authorized publications.
(1995 Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
§ 111.06   LEWD MATERIAL; LITTERING; TRESPASS.
   (A)   The registration of a distributor under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed a license to circulate any lewd, or other undesirable
printed matter contrary to existing ordinances or state or federal regulations.
   (B)   The registrant shall assume full responsibility for an orderly and
mannerly distribution of his or her printed matter so that private premises,
yards, the public streets, or right-of-ways shall not be littered with the
same.
   (C)   The registration of any person, firm, or corporation under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to constitute a license to enter
into any premises for the purpose of distributing any literature or printed
matter contrary to the wishes and desires of the owner or custodian of such
premises.
(1995 Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.07   MISLEADING ADVERTISING IN THE SALE OF EYEGLASSES.
   (A)   No person engaged in or connected with the sale of eyeglasses, lenses,
eyeglass frames, or mountings, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Include in any advertisement by newspaper, radio, display, or
otherwise, any statement which in any manner misrepresents any such frames,
mountings, or other material, or prices for same, or service or credit terms;
or
      (2)   Include in any advertisement, by newspaper, radio, display, or
otherwise, any statement advertising the price of lenses or of complete
eyeglasses including lenses, either with or without professional services, or
credit terms, installment payments, or price plans, or the price of any frames
or mountings, unless in conjunction therewith the words “without lenses” appear
or are read as such.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misleading advertising, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(1995 Code, § 111.07)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.08   EMPLOYMENT ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall publish employment opportunity notices or
advertisements under a sex-designated classification system.
   (B)   This section does not apply when the sex of the prospective employee
is a bona fide occupational requirement to a specific employment opportunity.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of publishing sex-designated
classifications in employment advertisements, a minor misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 111.08)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.09   POSTING BILLS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall post up or affix, or cause to be posted up or affixed,
in any manner, any bill, placard, or notice, either written or printed, on any
fence, tree-box, wall, or on any part of any building, without the previous
consent of the occupant thereof, or if there be no occupant, without previous
consent of the owner or owners thereof, or on any part of any building or
property belonging to the village.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of posting bills on
private property, a minor misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 111.09)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.10   POSTING BILLS ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall hang or tack on or attach to any pole or other
structure on any street, avenue, alley, park, or public ground of the village,
any handbill, card, circular, or other printed material, including directional
signs. However, such signs may be posted with the permission of the Village
Manager in or on publicly-owned parks and playfields, publicly-owned parking
facilities, publicly-owned buildings, highway destinations, highway routes,
business districts located off major thoroughfares, churches located off
through highways, bridges, interchanges, or ramp connections.
   (B)   Temporary signs giving notice of public hearings of agencies of the
village may be posted in locations approved by the Village Manager.
   (C)   Newspapers of general circulation in the village may be sold from
racks, containers, and bags attached to poles and other structures on village
sidewalks in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the Village
Manager relating to the safety and unobstructed use of the streets by vehicular
and pedestrian traffic posted in locations approved by the Village Manager.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of posting bills on streets, a
minor misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 111.10)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100.
(1995 Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 6-1958, passed 5-5-1958)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Grant of 15-year authority
   
112.03   Franchise proposal included by reference
   
112.04   Authority not exclusive
   
112.05   Franchise payments
   
112.06   Insurance
   
112.07   Bond
   
112.08   Indemnity
   
112.09   Books and records
   
112.10   Rates
   
112.11   Conditions of street occupancy
   
112.12   Construction schedule
   
112.13   Service to designated agencies
   
112.14   Operational standards
   
112.15   Supervision by village
   
112.16   Duty to remove properties from streets
   
112.17   Operational reports
   
112.18   Removal of facilities on request
   
112.19   Emergency use of facilities
   
112.20   Compliance with state and federal laws
   
112.21   Filing communications with regulatory agencies
   
112.22   Restrictions
   
112.23   Restrictions against assignment
   
112.24   Preferential or discriminatory practices
   
112.25   Revocation
   
112.26   Review and renewal
   
112.27   Complaint procedure
   
112.28   Hiring and employment practices
   
112.29   Grantee to have no recourse
   
112.30   Failure of village to enforce franchise
   
112.31   Time essence of this agreement
   
112.32   Validity of franchise
   
112.33   Arbitration
   
112.34   Rights reserved to village
   
112.35   Acceptance
   
112.36   System extension to subscribers
   
112.37   Interconnection
   
112.38   QUBE interactive service
   
112.39   Privacy
   
112.40   Violations
   
112.41   Video service provider fee
Regulations for Rates
   
112.50   Definitions
   
112.51   Initial review of basic cable rates
   
112.52   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates
   
112.53   Cable operator information
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CTS. A system of antennas, coaxial cables, wires,
wave guides, or other conductors, electronic equipment, or facilities designed,
constructed, or used for the production of television signals, interception and
receipt of television or radio signals directly or indirectly off the air and
the distribution or transmission of such signals and other communications
services by means of cable or other similar devices to subscribers.
   CHANNEL. A band of frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum which is
capable of carrying one audio-video television signal.
   COMPANY CHANNEL. The channel on the CTS which is reserved by this contract
for the carriage of program material originated by the grantee or by another
person in accordance with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and
regulations.
   EXHIBIT A. The franchise proposal submitted by the grantee on April 6, 1979.
   FRANCHISE. The nonexclusive permission, license, franchise, or authority
given hereunder to construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system
in the village.
   GRANTEE. Warner Cable Corporation or its successors, transferees, or
assigns, the recipient of the franchise granted herein.
   GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS. All revenue derived directly or indirectly from
monthly service charges for service to subscribers of the grantee. However,
this shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the grantee herein
imposed directly on any subscriber or user by the state, village, or other
governmental unit. GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS shall include all revenue from basic
service charges and premium programming service, including per-channel and per-
program charge. Only those premium services (such as home security and data
transmission) which compete with other similar services offered by other
commercial companies would be excluded from GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS.
   PUBLIC CHANNEL. The channel on the CTS which is reserved by this contract
for carriage of program material provided by persons who lease channel time and
if necessary, studio facilities, from the grantee for the presentation of
programs in accordance with this chapter.
   STREET. The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, path, public way or place, alley, court,
sidewalk, boulevard, parkway, drive, or other easement now or hereafter held by
the village for the purpose of public travel and shall include such other
easements or rights-of-way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the
village which shall, within their proper use and meaning, entitle the village
and its grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing or
transmitting signals over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other property as
may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable television system.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the service of
the grantee herein.
   VILLAGE CHANNEL. The channel on the CTS which is reserved by this chapter
for use by the village.
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The existing or succeeding chief administrative officer of
the village or his or her designate.
(1995 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.02   GRANT OF 15-YEAR AUTHORITY.
   There is granted by the village to the grantee, the right, privilege, and
franchise to construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system in the
streets of the village for a period of 15 years from and after the passage,
acceptance, and effective date of this chapter, subject to the conditions and
restrictions as hereinafter provided.
(1995 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.03   FRANCHISE PROPOSAL INCLUDED BY REFERENCE.
   The nonexclusive franchise (i.e., Exhibit A) granted herein is pursuant to
and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter and, by
reference, the grantee's franchise proposal and amendments marked Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by reference. It is agreed and understood that any breach
of the provisions set forth in Exhibit A shall constitute a breach of contract
and a violation of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.04   AUTHORITY NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The right to use and occupy the streets for the purposes herein set forth
shall not be exclusive and the village reserves the right to grant a similar
use of the streets to any person at any time during the period of this
franchise.
(1995 Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.05   FRANCHISE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall pay to the village for the use of the streets and
other facilities of the village in the operation of the CTS and for the
municipal supervision thereof during the life of the franchise, a sum equal to
3% of the annual gross receipts of the grantee. An additional 2% of gross
receipts will be paid by the grantee for the funding of local access
programming at such time as the village prepares and the Federal Communications
Commission approves, a plan for the conduct, administration, and funding of
public access programming in the community. The grantee shall pay the franchise
payments in two semiannual payments. The grantee shall also file with the
village within 45 days after the expiration of its fiscal year, during the
period this franchise shall be in force, a financial statement showing in
detail the gross annual receipts of grantee during the preceding year. It shall
be the duty of the grantee to pay to the village at the time for filing such
statement, the final balance due on the sum hereinabove prescribed. The grantee
shall also file, within 90 days following the conclusion of each fiscal year of
the grantee, an annual report showing the yearly total gross receipts and
payments to the village and any further relevant financial information in
regard to the company as may be required by the Village Manager.
   (B)   In the event this franchise should be terminated or forfeited prior to
the end of the basic 15-year term, the grantee shall immediately submit to the
village a financial statement prepared as before required, showing the gross
receipts of the grantee for the time elapsed since the last period for which
the grantee has paid to the village the required percentage of gross annual
receipts, and the grantee shall pay to the village not later than 30 days
following the termination of the franchise, a like percentage of such gross
receipts.
   (C)   In the event that any payment is not made on or before the applicable
date fixed in divisions (A) and (B) hereof, interest on such payments shall
apply from such date at the yearly rate of 10%.
   (D)   The village shall have the right to inspect the grantee's records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid under this
franchise shall be always accorded to the village. No acceptance of any payment
by the village shall be construed as a release of or an accord or satisfaction
of any claim the village might have for further or additional sum payable under
the terms of this chapter or for any other performance or obligation of grantee
hereunder.
   (E)   Payments of compensation made by the grantee to the village pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered in the nature of a
tax but shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or hereafter
required to be paid by any law of the United States, the state, or the village.
(1995 Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.06   INSURANCE.
   (A)   At all times during the term of the franchise, the grantee shall
obtain, pay all premiums for and file with the Village Finance Director
executed duplicate copies and receipts evidencing the payment of premiums for
the following.
      (1)   A general comprehensive public liability insurance policy
indemnifying, defending, and saving harmless the village, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents, or employees, from any and all claims by any person
occasioned by the operations of the grantee under franchise herein granted, or
alleged to have been so caused or occurred, with a minimum liability of
$500,000 for personal injury or death to any one person and $1,000,000 for
personal injury or death of any two or more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Property damage insurance indemnifying, defending, and saving
harmless the village, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees,
from and against all claims by any person whatsoever for property damage
occasioned by the operation of the grantee under the franchise herein granted
or alleged to have been so caused or occurred, with a minimum liability of
$500,000 for property damages resulting from any one incident.
   (B)   All of the foregoing insurance contracts shall be in form satisfactory
to the Director of Legal Services and shall be issued and maintained in
companies acceptable to the Village Finance Director and they shall require ten
days written notice of any cancellation to both the village and the grantee
herein.
(1995 Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.07   BOND.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of this franchise,
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the term of this
franchise, a faithful performance bond running to the village, with a good and
sufficient surety approved by the village, in the penal sum of $25,000
conditioned that grantee shall well and truly observe, fulfill, and perform
each term and condition of this franchise, and that in case of any breach, the
village shall be entitled to recover from the principal and sureties thereof
the amount of all damages, including all costs and attorney's fees incurred by
the village, proximately resulting from the failure of grantee to well and
faithfully observe and perform any and all of the provisions of this franchise.
   (B)   The insurance policy and bond obtained by the grantee in compliance
with this section have herewith been filed with and approved by the Village
Council and such insurance policy and bond, along with written evidence of
payment of required premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the Village
Clerk during the term of this franchise.
(1995 Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.08   INDEMNITY.
   (A)   The grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the village, its officers, boards, commissions, and
employees against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability, and judgments
for damages, including but not limited to, expenses for reasonable legal fees
and disbursements and liabilities assumed by the village in connection
therewith:
      (1)   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the
acts or omissions of the grantee, its servants, agents, or employees or to
which the grantee's negligence shall in any way contribute; or
      (2)   Arising out of the grantee's failure to comply with the provisions
of any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation applicable to
the grantee in its business hereunder.
   (B)   The foregoing indemnity is conditioned on the following, that the
village shall give grantee prompt notice of the making of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding covered by the provisions
of this section. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the village from
cooperating with the grantee and participating in the defense of any litigation
by its own counsel at its sole cost and expense.
(1995 Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.09   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall file with the Village Manager, true and accurate
maps or plats of all existing and proposed installations on the streets. These
maps and plats shall conform to the requirements of the Village Manager and
shall be kept continuously up to date.
   (B)   The grantee shall file annually with the Finance Director within 90
days after the end of the grantee's fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to
its stockholders. This report shall be submitted with such other reasonable
information as the Village Manager shall request with respect to the grantee's
properties, income, and expenses related to its CATV operations within the
village.
   (C)   The grantee shall continually keep on file with the Village Clerk a
current list of its shareholders holding over 5% of the outstanding stock, and
officers with their current addresses.
   (D)   All books and records of the grantee concerning its operations within
the village shall be made available for inspection and audit by the Safety-
Service Director within 30 days after any request for such inspection or audit
shall be made.
(1995 Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.10   RATES.
   (A)   Charges for service. The grantee shall establish rates for its
services in accordance with the schedule of rates contained in Exhibit A. Such
rates shall remain in force for two years from the date that the grantee
activates the system within the village. Such activation shall mean substantial
completion of installation, with service available to at least 90% of the
houses to which access is provided to the grantee within the community.
      (1)   No increase in rates shall occur until after this two year period
after activation. Any rate changes prior to the grantee obtaining 60% of its
potential subscribers shall be fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory and
based on a fair return on their investment compatible with other contiguous
area rate charges. Justification for such rate changes shall be submitted to
the Council and subscribers at least 60 days prior to any change in such rates.
      (2)   No increase in rates shall be made except as approved by the
Council after an appropriate public proceeding affording due process, except
that such rate-adjustment procedure as set forth below shall not be required
unless and until the franchise achieves 60% penetration of its potential
subscribers.
      (3)   The grantee may petition the village for a change in rates by
filing a revised rate schedule with the Finance Director, the Clerk of Council,
and such other individual or office designated by the village. The revised rate
schedule shall include the grantee's justification for the proposed new rate
schedule.
      (4)   Within 60 days after the filing of such petition, Village Council
shall hold an appropriate public hearing at which all parties desiring to be
heard, including the grantee, shall be heard on any matters relating to the
grantee's system and the proposed new rates.
      (5)   Within 90 days after the filing of the petition, Village Council
may issue a written decision on the grantee's petition, either approving,
denying, or modifying the same.
      (6)   If Village Council fails to act within 90 days after the filing of
the grantee's rate change petition, the grantee shall thereafter be entitled to
put its proposed new rate schedule into effect.
   (B)   Rate review. The grantee may request a rate review at any time except
that not more than one such request may be made by the grantee in any 12-month
period unless such request is to seek relief from the imposition of a legally
imposed fee, tax, or payment not contemplated in the determination of the
existing rates. The village, on its own motion, may request a rate review at
any time by giving reasonable notice to the grantee of its intention to do so.
   (C)   Schedule of rates. A grantee shall maintain and file with the village
a complete schedule of subscriber rates including all fees and charges for
services not subject to approval by the village.
   (D)   Rates for services subject to approval by the village. The following
rates shall be subject to the prior approval of the village:
      (1)   Rates for the provision of basic service to subscribers, private or
commercial;
      (2)   Rates for the connection and installation to the CTS; and
      (3)   Rates for installation and connection to the CTS where unusual
circumstances exist such as remote or inaccessible subscriber locations or
subscriber requested underground service drops.
(1995 Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.11   CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmissions and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the grantee within the village shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public
ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who join any of the streets, alleys,
or other public ways and places. The CTS shall be constructed and operated in
compliance with all adopted local and national construction codes.
   (B)   Except when absolutely necessary to service a subscriber and not
simply because it shall be more convenient, economical, or profitable for the
grantee to so operate, and then only when expressly permitted in writing by the
Safety-Service Director under such conditions as he or she shall prescribe for
the public welfare, the grantee shall not erect or authorize or permit others
to erect any poles or other facilities within the streets of the village for
the conduct of its CTS but shall use the existing poles and other equipment of
the appropriate electrical power and telephone or other utility companies under
such terms and agreements as the grantee shall negotiate with these companies.
   (C)   Should the grantee be required to place any lines or other equipment
on any boulevard, parkway, or other property under the control of the
Recreation Commission, the manner of placement and location thereof shall be
subject to the control of those Commissioners.
   (D)   Should the grantee be required, in the conduct of its business to
locate property within the streets of the village other than property which may
be attached to utility poles, then in that event before the grantee shall
install or shall permit any other person to install for grantee any of such
property in the street, the nature of such property shall be disclosed to the
Safety-Service Director for his or her approval as to the need thereof and as
to the location within the street and then only under such conditions as he or
she shall prescribe concerning such location or installation.
   (E)   Whenever the village, county, or state shall require the relocation or
reinstallation of any property of the grantee in any of the streets of the
village, it shall be the obligation of the grantee on notice of such
requirements to immediately remove and relocate or reinstall the property as
may be reasonably necessary to meet the requirements of the village, county, or
state which such relocation, removal, or reinstallation by the grantee shall be
at the sole cost of the grantee.
   (F)   Whenever in any place within the village, all or any part of the
electric and telephone utilities shall be located underground, it shall be the
obligation of the grantee to locate or to cause its property to be located
underground within such places. If the electric and telephone utilities shall
be located underground in any place within the village after the grantee shall
have previously installed its property, nevertheless, the grantee shall, at the
same time or immediately thereafter, remove and relocate its property also
underground in such places. If the grantee shall in any case be unable for
operational reasons only to locate or relocate any part of his or her property
underground, then in that event the Village Manager on being satisfied as to
the facts thereof may permit such property to remain above the ground even
though other facilities may be placed underground in the area. However, any
such permission shall be on such conditions as the Village Manager may require
for the public welfare. Any facilities of the grantee placed underground at the
property owner's request, in an area where electric or telephone facilities are
aerial, shall be installed with the additional expense paid by the property
owner.
   (G)   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees overhanging streets
of the village so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in
contact with the grantee wires and cables, all trimming to be done under the
supervision and direction of the village and at the expense of the grantee.
   (H)   In case of disturbance of any street caused by the grantee, the
grantee shall at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
Village Manager, replace and restore such street, and in as good a condition as
before the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (I)   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the village temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or
raising or lowering of the wires shall be paid by the person requesting the
same and the grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in
advance. The grantee shall be given not less 72 hours advance notice to arrange
for such temporary wire changes.
(1995 Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 95
§ 112.12   CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   On accepting the franchise, the grantee shall, within 60 days, file
the documents required to obtain all necessary federal, state, and local
licenses, permits, and authorizations required for the conduct of its business,
and shall on request of the village submit reports to the Village Manager on
progress in this respect until all such documents are in hand.
   (B)   Construction and installation of the system, underground and aerial,
shall be completed as presented in Exhibit A, within two years of the effective
date of the franchise, assuming no occurrence of delays beyond the control of
the grantee, such as, utility make ready delays, acquisition of easements, or
zoning problems.
   (C)   As evidence of good faith in the performance of the franchise
agreement and in consideration of the granting of the franchise the grantee
shall on acceptance of this franchise, deposit with the village, a construction
performance bond to guarantee its construction time table under the terms of
this franchise. This bond shall terminate on completion of the project.
Thereafter, only the bond requirement as set forth in §
112.07 shall be maintained thereafter.
(1995 Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.13   SERVICE TO DESIGNATED AGENCIES.
   (A)   The grantee shall install one QUBE interactive service drop and one
educational closed circuit without initial or monthly charge to the following
institutions located within the village.
      (1)   Village hall.
      (2)   Facilities building.
      (3)   Local school.
      (4)   Recreation facility.
      (5)   Fire house.
      (6)   Police Department.
   (B)   All above education loop shall be interconnected to the Princeton
Village School District Educational Loop.
   (C)   The grantee shall install one QUBE interactive service drop and one
closed circuit governmental drop without initial or monthly charge, to the
following locations within the village.
      (1)   Village hall.
      (2)   Facilities building.
      (3)   Local school.
      (4)   Recreation facility.
      (5)   Fire house.
      (6)   Police Department.
(1995 Code, § 112.13) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.14   OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain devices or systems for preventing failures and accidents which are
likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public.
   (B)   The grantee shall install and maintain its wire, cable, fixtures, and
other equipment so as not to interfere with the equipment of any utility of the
village, or any other entity lawfully and rightfully using the conduit, pole,
subway, or other part of the right-of-way.
   (C)   The cable television system shall at all times conform to the
construction and maintenance standards set forth in the grantee's bid and to
the standards set forth below.
      (1)   Methods of construction, installation, and maintenance of the
village's cable television system shall comply with the most current edition of
the National Electrical Safety Code to the extent that such code is consistent
with local law affecting the construction, installation, and maintenance of
electric supply and communications lines. To the extent that such code is
inconsistent with other provisions of this franchise or with local law, the
latter shall govern.
      (2)   Any tower constructed for use in the village's cable television
system shall comply with the standards contained in Structured Standards for
Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures, EIE Standards RS-222-
A as published by the Engineering Department of the Electronic Industries
Association, 2001 Eye Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20006.
      (3)   Installation and physical dimensions of any tower constructed for
use in the village's cable television system shall comply with all appropriate
Federal Aviation Agency regulations, including, but not limited to, “Objectives
Affecting Navigable Airspace,” 14 C.F.R. 77.1 et seq., February 1965.
      (4)   Any antenna structure in the village's cable television system
shall comply with “Construction, Marking and Lighting of Antenna Structure,” 48
C.F.R. 17.1 et seq., September 1967.
      (5)   All working facilities and conditions used during construction,
installation, and maintenance of the village's cable television system shall
comply with the standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
      (6)   Each cable distribution system on the public streets shall comply
with all applicable laws and ordinance and governmental regulations regarding
clearances above ground.
      (7)   The grantee shall at all times use ordinary care, and shall install
and maintain in use, commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisance
to the public.
      (8)   The grantee shall construct and operate the system and related
facilities in accordance with all generally accepted related industry codes,
standards, and recommendations, that are applicable.
   (D)   All conductors, cables, towers, poles, and other components of the
system shall be located and constructed by the grantee in back of street curbs
so as to provide minimum interference with access by adjoining property owners
to the streets and public ways nor shall any pole or other fixtures of the
grantee placed in the public way interfere with the usual travel in such public
way.
   (E)   Neither the grantee, its officers, nor its employees shall engage in
the business of selling, leasing, repairing, or installing television
receivers, radio receivers, or accessories for such receivers within the
village during the term of this franchise. This division shall not preclude the
selling, leasing, repair, or installation of such converters or other devices
as may be necessary to render the subscriber's receiver capable of receiving
all channels of the cable television system.
(1995 Code, § 112.14) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.15   SUPERVISION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   The grantee shall construct, operate, and maintain the CTS subject to
the supervision of all of the authorities of the village who have jurisdiction
in such matters and in strict compliance with all laws, ordinances, and
departmental rules and regulations affecting the system.
   (B)   The CTS and all parts thereof, shall be subject to the right of
periodic inspection by the village.
   (C)   The Village Manager may, from time to time, issue such reasonable
rules and regulations concerning the construction, operation, and maintenance
of the CTS as are consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   If, at any time, the powers of the Village Council or any agency or
official of the village are transferred by law to any other board, authority,
agency, or official, then such power of other board, authority, agency, or
official shall have the powers, rights, and duties previously vested under this
contract or by law in the Village Council or any agency or official of the
village.
(1995 Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.16   DUTY TO REMOVE PROPERTIES FROM STREETS.
   (A)   Following the grantee's commencement of service through and over its
cable television system, the grantee shall promptly remove from the public
streets where its properties are located, all or any part of its facilities so
located, when one or more of the following enumerated conditions occur:
      (1)   The grantee ceases to operate its system for a continuous period of
12 months from the date of the occurrence;
      (2)   The grantee fails to construct the system as hereinafter provided;
or
      (3)   The franchise is terminated or revoked pursuant to notice as
provided in §
112.25 hereof.
   (B)   Provided that the grantee shall be entitled to receive notice in
writing from the village setting forth one or more of the occurrences
hereinabove enumerated, or such other occurrence hereinbefore or hereinafter
provided, and that the grantee shall have 90 days from the date on which the
notice is received to remove its properties as hereinabove required.
   (C)   The Village Manager is authorized to enforce the provisions of this
section as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   The Village Manager shall notify the grantee in writing of any
occurrence provided for in this section for which the franchise may be
terminated, forfeited, revoked, or declared void by the village, and that
within 180 days following receipt of the notice, the grantee shall remove from
the streets of the village on, over, and under which its properties are
located, all of its properties unless otherwise authorized and permitted by the
Safety-Service Director; and
      (2)   The Village Manager may declare abandoned any property of the
grantee remaining in place 180 days after notification from the Village Manager
as hereinabove provided, and that same shall be considered permanently
abandoned property unless the Village Manager extends the time for removal of
the property for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   (D)   Any property abandoned by the grantee as hereinabove or hereinafter
provided shall become the property of the village and the grantee agrees to
execute and deliver an instrument in writing, transferring its ownership
interest in any such property to the village; provided that any notice given
the grantee by the Village Manager, as provided in this section shall be deemed
notice to any other persons claiming interest in the property of the grantee
and those persons shall be subject to all the provisions hereinbefore provided.
(1995 Code, § 112.16) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.17   OPERATIONAL REPORTS.
   (A)   Within six months from the effective date of this chapter, the grantee
shall submit to the Village Manager a plan for the entire village indicating
the date on which the grantee expects the installation of the CTS will be
completed and available for service to subscribers in the various areas of the
village.
   (B)   The grantee shall furnish the Village Manager with progress reports
indicating in detail, the area of construction of the CTS. Such periodic
reports shall be furnished at six-month intervals, the first report to be made
nine months from the effective date of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 112.17) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.18   REMOVAL OF FACILITIES ON REQUEST.
   On termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all of its facilities and equipment from the premises of such subscriber
on his or her written request.
(1995 Code, § 112.18) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.19   EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency or disaster, the grantee shall on request
of the village, make available its facilities to the village for emergency use
during the period of such emergency or disaster and shall provide such
personnel as necessary to properly operate under the circumstances.
   (B)   The grantee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability for
an emergency interrupt whereby the village in time of crisis may be able to
introduce a bulletin on all channels simultaneously.
(1995 Code, § 112.19) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.20   COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this franchise to the
contrary, the grantee shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations
of the state and federal governments or any administrative agencies thereof.
However, if any such state or federal law or regulation shall require the
grantee to perform any service or shall prohibit the grantee from performing
any service, or shall permit the grantee to perform any service, in conflict
with the terms of this franchise or of any law or regulation of the village,
then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof the grantee shall notify
the Village Manager of the point of conflict believed to exist between such
regulation or law and the laws or regulations of the village of this franchise.
   (B)   If the Village Council determines that a material provision of this
chapter is affected by such subsequent action, the Village Council shall have
the right to modify any of the provisions herein to such reasonable extent as
may be necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this agreement.
(1995 Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.21   FILING COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   Copies of all petitions, applications, and communications submitted by the
grantee to the Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission, or any other federal or state regulatory commission or agency
having jurisdiction in respect to any matter affecting CTS operations shall
also be submitted simultaneously to the village by filing the same with the
Director of Legal Services.
(1995 Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.22   RESTRICTIONS.
   Neither the grantee nor any officer or director of the grantee shall hold
directly or indirectly any stock or other beneficial ownership interest in any
other company owning or operating any radio or television broadcast station
whose signals are carried on the CTS on a regular basis, any television
broadcast network other than a network consisting entirely or substantially of
cable television systems, or any newspaper or magazine whose principal
circulation market is in the Cincinnati metropolitan area except that ownership
by an officer or director of less than 1% of the outstanding stock of any
company whose securities are listed or admitted to trading on a national
securities exchange shall not be deemed in violation of this section. No
officer or director of the grantee shall be an officer or a director of any
company owning or operating business of the types heretofore mentioned.
(1995 Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.23   RESTRICTIONS AGAINST ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, CONTROL shall mean a majority stock
ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
   (B)   This franchise shall not be assigned or transferred, either in whole
or in part, or leased, sublet, or mortgaged in any manner, nor shall title
thereto, either legal or equitable or any right, interest, or property therein,
pass to or vest in any person, either by the act of the grantee or by operation
of law, without the consent of the Village Council. The granting, giving, or
waiving of any one or more of such consents shall not render unnecessary any
subsequent consent.
   (C)   The consent or approval of the Village Council to any assignment,
lease, transfer, sublease, or mortgage of this franchise shall not constitute a
waiver or release of the rights of the village in and to the streets.
   (D)   The grantee shall promptly notify the Village Manager of any actual or
proposed change in or transfer of or acquisition by any other part of control
of the grantee. Every change, transfer, or acquisition of control of the
franchise shall make this franchise subject to cancellation unless and until
the Village Council shall have consented hereto. For the purpose of determining
whether it shall consent to such change, transfer, or acquisition of control,
the Village Council may inquire into the qualifications of the prospective
controlling party, and the grantee shall assist the Village Council in any such
inquiry. If the Village Council does not schedule a hearing on the matter
within 60 days after notice of the change or proposed change and the filing of
a petition requesting its consent, it shall be deemed to have consented. In the
event that the Village Council passes an ordinance denying its consent and such
change, transfer, or acquisition of control has been effected, the Village
Council may cancel this franchise unless control of the grantee is restored to
its status prior to the change, or to a status acceptable to the Village
Council.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit a mortgage or
pledge of the CTS equipment, or any part thereof, or the leasing by the grantee
from another person of the CTS equipment, or part thereof, for financing
purposes or otherwise. Any such mortgage, pledge, or lease shall be subject and
subordinate to the rights of the village under this contract and applicable
law.
(1995 Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.24   PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   The grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service facilities, rules,
regulations, or any other respect, make or grant any undue preference or
advantage to any person, or subject any person to any undue disadvantage.
However, connection and service charge may be waived or modified during
promotional campaigns of grantee.
(1995 Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.25   REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to
the village, the village reserves as an additional and as a separate and
distinct remedy the right to revoke this franchise and all rights and
privileges of the grantee hereunder in any of the following events or for any
of the following reasons:
      (1)   The grantee shall by act or omission violate any term or condition
of this chapter and shall within 30 days following written demand by the
village to effect such compliance fail to do so;
      (2)    Any provision of this chapter shall be finally adjudged by a court
of law invalid or unenforceable and the Village Council further finds that such
provision constitutes at that time a consideration material to the continuance
of the franchise herein granted;
      (3)   The grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its
debts, or is adjudged bankrupt; or all or part of grantee's facilities should
be sold under an instrument to secure a debt and are not redeemed by grantee
within 30 days from the sale; or
      (4)   The grantee attempts to or does practice any fraud or deceit in its
conduct or relations under this franchise.
   (B)   No such revocation shall be effective unless or until the Village
Council shall have adopted an ordinance setting forth the cause and reason for
the revocation and the effective date thereof, which ordinance shall not be
adopted without 30 days prior notice thereof to the grantee and an opportunity
for the grantee to be heard on the proposed adoption of the proposed ordinance.
In the event the revocation as proposed in the ordinance depends on a finding
of fact, such finding of fact as made by the Village Council after the hearing
provided for, if requested by the grantee, shall be conclusive.
   (C)   The grantee shall not be declared in default or be subject to any
sanction under any provision of this contract in any case in which the
performance of any such provision is prevented for reasons beyond its control.
(1995 Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.26   REVIEW AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   On or about the fifth, tenth, and fifteenth anniversaries of the
effective date of the franchise grant, the village will schedule and hold a
public meeting with the grantee to review the performance by the grantee under
the franchise, including future plans of operation and performance. In
particular, the village may inquire whether the grantee is supplying a level
and variety of services equivalent to those being generally offered at that
time in the industry to comparable market situations. The grantee shall make
available to the village, if requested by the village, such records, documents,
and information which are relevant to such meeting and inquiry.
   (B)   The Council shall not hold any meeting involving the review, renewal,
cancellation, or expiration of the grantee's franchise unless the Village
Manager has advised the grantee in writing, at least 30 days prior to such
meeting, as to its time, place, and purpose; and published a notice, at least
once, ten days before the meeting in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village.
   (C)   It shall be the policy of the village to amend this franchise on
application of the grantee, when necessary to enable the grantee to take
advantage of advancements in the state-of-the-art which will afford it an
opportunity to more effectively, efficiently, or economically serve its
subscribers. However, this section shall not be construed to require the
village to make any amendment. This franchise may be amended at any time in
order to conform with the applicable federal law and FCC rulings after notice
and public hearing.
   (D)   The Council shall hold a public hearing prior to the franchise
expiration date, the purpose of which will be to review the grantee's
performance during the entire term of its franchise, to consider the adequacy
of the franchise from the standpoint of the village, the grantee, and the
Federal Communications Commission rules for cable television, and to determine
the advisability of renewing the grantee's franchise for a period of 15 years.
   (E)   The village shall hear any interested persons during the meeting and
shall determine whether or not the grantee did reasonably comply with the terms
and conditions imposed by this chapter and the franchise.
   (F)   If the village determines that the grantee's performance has been
satisfactory in accordance with the terms and conditions imposed by this
chapter and the franchise, the Board shall renew the grantee's franchise for a
period of 15 years in which event the village shall modify this chapter and the
franchise to bring them into compliance with the FCC rules for cable
television. The village shall have the right to recoup from the grantee those
direct expenses above normal administrative costs incurred pursuant to renewal
of the franchise.
   (G)   If the village determines that the performance of the grantee has not
been satisfactory under the terms and conditions imposed by this chapter and
the franchise, it shall have the right not to renew the franchise in which
event the village shall, on the expiration date of the franchise, select a new
grantee, after a full public proceeding, and at the option of the village, such
new grantee may be required to take the assets at fair market value.
(Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.27   COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The grantee shall establish a subscriber complaint procedure and
designate a local official for administering the complaint procedure at its
local office. Notice of the complaint procedure shall be given to each
subscriber.
   (B)   The grantee shall respond to all service calls within 24 hours and
correct malfunctions as promptly as possible, but in all cases not longer than
48 hours after notification thereof. For this purpose, the grantee shall
maintain an office adequately staffed and trained to provide prompt and
efficient service to the subscribers.
   (C)   In cases where requests for service have been ignored or unfilled for
whatever reason, the Safety-Service Director shall have the power to require
the grantee to provide service in response to all reasonable requests as the
Director may determine.
   (D)   When there have been similar complaints made, or where there exists
other evidence, which, in the judgment of the village, casts doubt on the
reliability of quality of cable service, the village shall have the right and
authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze and report on the performance
of the system. Such test or tests shall be made, and the reports of such test
or tests shall be delivered to the village no later than 14 days after the
village formally notifies the grantee.
(1995 Code, § 112.27) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.28   HIRING AND EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   The grantee shall not refuse to hire or employ, nor bar or discharge from
employment, nor discriminate against any person in compensation or in terms,
conditions or privileges of employment because of age, race, creed, color,
national origin, or sex, and grantee shall have an approved affirmative action
plan.
(1995 Code, § 112.28) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.29   GRANTEE TO HAVE NO RECOURSE.
   Except as expressly provided in this franchise, the grantee herein shall
have no recourse whatsoever against the village for any loss, cost or expense,
or damage arising out of any of the provisions or requirements of this
franchise or because of the enforcement thereof by the village, nor for the
failure of the village to have the authority to grant all or any part of this
franchise. The grantee expressly acknowledges that on accepting this franchise,
it did so relying on its own investigation and understanding of the power and
authority of the village to grant this franchise. The grantee, by acceptance of
this franchise, acknowledges that it has not been induced to enter into this
franchise by any understanding or promise or other statement, whether verbal or
written, by or on behalf of the village or by any other third person concerning
any term or condition of this franchise not expressed herein. The grantee
further acknowledges, by the acceptance of this franchise, that it has
carefully read the terms and conditions hereof, and is willing to and does
accept all of the risks of the meaning of such terms and conditions and agrees
that in the event of any ambiguity therein or in the event of any other dispute
over the meaning thereof, the same shall be construed strictly against the
grantee and in favor of the village.
(1995 Code, § 112.29) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.30   FAILURE OF VILLAGE TO ENFORCE FRANCHISE.
   The grantee shall not be excused from complying with any of the terms or
conditions of this franchise by any failure of the village on any one or more
occasions to insist on or to seek compliance with any such terms or conditions.
(1995 Code, § 112.30) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.31   TIME ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.
   Whenever this franchise shall set forth any time for any action to be
performed by or on behalf of the grantee, such time shall be deemed of the
essence and any failure of the grantee to perform within the time allotted
shall always be sufficient grounds for the village to revoke this franchise.
(1995 Code, § 112.31) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.32   VALIDITY OF FRANCHISE.
   The grantee agrees by the acceptance of this franchise that it will not at
any time set up against the village in any claim or proceeding any condition or
term of this franchise as unreasonable, arbitrary, or void or that the village
had not power or authority to make such term or condition, but shall be
required to accept the validity of the terms and conditions of this franchise
in their entirety.
(1995 Code, § 112.32) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.33   ARBITRATION.
   Any matters arising under §§
112.09 through
112.13, which cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of both parties shall be
determined by a panel of three arbitrators. All matters arising under other
sections shall be determined as provided in this section. One arbitrator shall
be appointed by the Mayor, one by the grantee, and one by the presiding judge
of the Hamilton County Court of Appeals. The fees of arbitrators shall be
determined by the presiding judge. The expenses of the arbitration, including
the fees of the arbitrators, shall be borne by the parties in such manner as
the arbitrators provide in their award, but in no event will the village be
obligated for more than half of the expense. The determination of the majority
of the arbitrators shall be binding on the parties.
(1995 Code, § 112.33) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.34   RIGHTS RESERVED TO VILLAGE.
   Without limitation on the rights which the village might otherwise have, the
village does expressly reserve the following rights, powers, and authorities:
   (A)   To exercise its governmental powers now or hereafter to the full
extent that such powers may be vested in or granted to the village;
   (B)   To determine through its Village Council any question of fact relating
to the meaning, terms, obligations, or other factors of this franchise, subject
to §
112.33 hereof;
   (C)   To grant additional franchises within the village to other persons for
the conduct of CTS under any conditions whatsoever acceptable to the village,
notwithstanding the same might be alleged to be more favorable than the rights
granted herein; and
   (D)   To exercise any other rights, powers, or duties required or
authorized, the village under the constitution of the state, the state laws, or
the Village Charter.
(1995 Code, § 112.34) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.35   ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   This chapter and its terms and provisions shall be accepted by the
grantee by written instrument executed and acknowledged by it as a deed is
required to be, and filed with the Clerk of Council within 30 days after the
passage of this chapter. Such written instrument shall state and express the
acceptance of this chapter and its terms, conditions, and provisions and the
grantee shall agree in the instrument to abide by, to observe, and perform
same, and declare that statements and recitals herein are correct and that it
has made and does make the agreements, statements, and admissions in this
chapter recited to have been or to be made.
   (B)   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after its final passage,
provided such formal acceptance hereof, of the terms and conditions by grantee
as herein provided in form approved by the Director of Legal Services have been
filed with the Clerk of Council within 30 days. If the aforementioned
acceptance is not filed as required, this chapter shall not take effect but
shall be void. The instrument of acceptance or an executed counterpart thereof,
shall be filed for record in the office of the Clerk of Council at the
grantee's expense within 30 days after the same is filed with the Village
Clerk. The recorded copies of such acceptance shall be obtained and preserved
by the Village Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 112.35) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.36   SYSTEM EXTENSION TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   The grantee shall extend its system to all areas of the village in
which a minimum density of 50 homes per miles exists. The grantee shall also
provide service to those areas through which its trunk or distribution cable
passes (for transportation purposes) even though the density may be less than
50 homes per mile.
   (B)   The minimum density of 50 homes per mile is identified as the minimum
number of homes per mile which is financially viable for construction of cable
television plant (aerial or underground) without placing undue burdens on
subscribers through subscriber rates.
   (C)   The grantee shall, whenever it shall receive request for service from
at least five subscribers within 600 feet from its existing system, extend the
system to those subscribers at no cost to the subscriber for system extension
other than usual connect fees for all subscribers. The 600 feet shall be
measured in extension length of grantee's cable required for service located
within the public way or easements and shall not include length of the
necessary service drop to the subscriber's home or premises. In addition, the
Safety-Service Director may on complaint from any potential subscriber residing
in the village order the extension of the system to such subscriber after
opportunity for hearing and notice to the grantee. In such cases, the Director
in his or her discretion may order such extension to any such subscriber only
on a reasonable contribution from the subscriber to the cost of such extension.
(1995 Code, § 112.36) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.37   INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   The grantee shall interconnect all of its adjoining cable systems and
shall use its best efforts to interconnect its cable systems with any or all
other cable systems located in the Greater Cincinnati Area on the directive of
the village. Interconnection of systems may be done by direct cable connection,
microwave line, or other appropriate methods. Interconnection may be required
for one or several channels of the cable system.
   (B)   On receiving the directive of the village to interconnect, the grantee
shall immediately initiate negotiations with the other affected system in order
that cost may be shared equally by the systems for both the construction and
operation of the interconnection link.
   (C)   The grantee shall cooperate with any interconnection corporation,
regional interconnection authority, or state or federal regulatory agency which
may be hereafter established for the purpose of regulating, facilitating,
financing, or otherwise providing for the interconnection of cable systems
beyond the boundaries of the village.
(1995 Code, § 112.37) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.38   QUBE INTERACTIVE SERVICE.
   The grantee shall provide the QUBE interactive service, as set forth in
Exhibit A, to the village providing that sufficient franchises are granted to
the grantee from the members of the Intercommunity Cable Television Committee
or from within Hamilton County sufficient to provide access to 75,000 potential
dwelling units.
(1995 Code, § 112.38) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.39   PRIVACY.
   (A)   The operator shall strictly observe, protect, and ensure the privacy
and property rights of subscribers and shall comply with all applicable law
regarding privacy.
   (B)   Neither the grantee nor the village shall tap or monitor or arrange
for the tapping or monitoring, or permit, either expressly or impliedly, any
other person to tap or monitor any cable, line, signal input device, or
subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose whatsoever, without the express
permission of the subscriber. However, the grantee shall be entitled to conduct
system-wide or individually addressed sweeps for the purpose of verifying
system integrity, controlling return-path transmission, or billing for pay
services.
   (C)   The grantee shall not, without the specific authorization of the
subscriber involved, sell, or otherwise make available to any person, lists of
the names and addresses of such subscriber, or any list which identifies the
reviewing habits of any individual subscriber, except as the same is necessary
for the construction, marketing, and maintenance of the grantee's facilities
and services hereunder and the concomitant billing of subscribers for the
services, or as the same may be necessary to give leased access channel users
sufficient and pertinent information to make full use of the leased access
channel. The grantee shall not provide information concerning the viewing
habits of identifiable individual subscribers to any person, group, or
organization for any purpose whatsoever.
(1995 Code, § 112.39) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 112.40   VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to construct, install, or maintain within any public
street in the village, or within any other public property of the village, or
within any privately owned area within the village which has not yet become a
public street, but is designated or delineated as a proposed public street on
any tentative subdivision map approved by the village, any equipment or
facilities for distributing any television signals or radio signals through a
cable television system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of such street
or property or area has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make or
use any unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically,
acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable
television system within this village for the purpose of enabling himself,
herself or others to receive or use any television signal, radio signal,
picture, program, or sound without payment to the owner of the system.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any cables, wires, or equipment
used for distribution of television signals, radio signals, picture, programs,
or sound.
(1995 Code, § 112.40) (Ord. 79-O-20, passed 7-9-1979)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.41 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   Following notice of a video service provider’s (hereinafter “VSP”)
intent to offer service in the City pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section §
1332.27 and as compensation for the benefits and privileges granted under the
State of Ohio video service authorization and in consideration of permission to
use the Village of Lincoln Height’s (hereafter “Village”) streets and rights-
of-way, the VSP shall pay to the Village a video service provider fee in the
amount of five percent (5%) of the VSP’s gross revenues, additionally including
advertising revenues, as defined by ORC Section 1332.32. Notice of this video
service provider fee shall be served upon the VSP by the Village Manager, or
duly appointed designee, within ten (10) days of the Village receiving notice
of the VSP’s intent to offer service to the Village.
   (B)   The Village, at its sole expense, may conduct an annual audit for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of a VSP’s calculation of the video service
provider fees paid to the Village in the audit period. For the purpose of the
audit, the VSP shall make available for inspection, at the location where such
records are kept in the normal course of business, those records pertaining to
gross revenues, including advertising revenues.
   (C)   A VSP shall pay any amounts found to have been underpaid in the audit
within thirty days after notice and shall include interest on the underpayments
as provided in ORC Section 1343.03, unless the VSP brings an action pursuant to
ORC Section 1332.33(D).
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the Village shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the Village may have for further or additional information sums
payable as a video service provider fee or from the performance of any other
obligation of the VSP.
   (E)   Video service provider fee payments shall be made no sooner than
forty-five nor later than sixty days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (F)   The Village represents that it is its intention to be able to charge
up to the maximum amount of video service provider fees allowed by law which is
presently set at 5% pursuant to ORC Section1332.32(C)(1)(b).
   (G)   A VSP shall meet all of the customer service standards contained in
ORC Section 1332.26.
   (H)   VSP’s currently providing PEG channel pursuant to a franchise,
competitive video service agreement, ordinance, or resolution shall continue to
provide the PEG channel(s) and support pursuant to ORC Section 1332.30.
(Ord. 2008-O-4, passed 2-11-2008)
REGULATIONS FOR RATES
§ 112.50   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
of similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the village notifies the cable operator of the village's qualification and
intent to regulate basic cable.
   INTERCOMMUNITY CABLE REGULATORY COMMISSION (ICRC). A regional council of
governments organized under Ohio law of which the village is a member having
the authority to conduct certain administrative procedures on behalf of the
village in relation to this subchapter.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational, or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the village, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. 94-O-5, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 112.51   INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this subchapter and the certification of
the village by the FCC, the village or the ICRC shall immediately notify all
cable operators in the village, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
that the village intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic
service tier and associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992,
being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
village or the ICRC, a cable operator shall file with the village or the ICRC,
its current rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment and any
supporting material concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the Village Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the Village Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its basic cable rates with the village.
      (2)   If the Village Council or the ICRC takes no action within 30 days
from the date the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the village,
the proposed rates will continue in effect.
      (3)   Such public hearing may be held in conjunction with other ICRC
communities under the direction of the ICRC.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the Village Council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the
Village Council shall, within 60 days from the date the cable operator filed
its basic cable rates with the village and by adoption of a formal resolution,
invoke the following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the Village Council needs more time to ensure
that a rate is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   One hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If the Village Council has not made a decision within the 90 or 150
day period, the Village Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the Village Council or the ICRC shall hold at
least one public hearing at which interested persons may express their views
and record objections.
   (F)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. in order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the secretary with the
objector's name and address.
   (G)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC's reasonable rate
standard, the Village Council or the ICRC shall review the rates using the
benchmark analysis in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC.
Based on the Village Council or the ICRC's findings, the initial basic cable
rates shall be established as follows.
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator's rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and
any change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992 and
the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify an initial basic
cable rates above the FCC's reasonable rate standard. The Village Council will
review a cost-of-service review. The Village Council may approve initial basic
cable rates above the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary
showing; however, a cost-of-service determination resulting in rates below the
benchmark or below the cable operator's September 30, 1992 rates minimum 10%,
will prescribe the cable operator's new rates.
   (I)   Decision.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion by the village or the ICRC
of its review of the cable operator's proposed rates, the Village Council shall
adopt its decision by formal resolution. The decision shall include one of the
following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the Village Council shall approve
the initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC's reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the Village Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within
the FCC's reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the Village Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator's cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
Village Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with divisions (G) or
(H) above, as applicable. In addition, the Village Council may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest (computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue
Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to September
1, 1993. The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the Village Council's decision
resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the Village Council must give
public notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement
once in the official newspaper of the village.
   (J)   Appeal. The Village Council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 94-O-5, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 112.52   REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the village who wishes to increase the
rates for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request
with the village and the ICRC and notify all subscribers at least 30 days
before the cable operator desires the increase to take effect. This notice may
not be given more often than annually and not until at least one year after the
determination of the initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the Village Council or the ICRC is able to expeditiously
determine that the cable operator's rate increase request for basic cable
service is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the
applicable price cap, the Village Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the village.
      (2)   If the Village Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the village, the proposed rates will
go into effect.
      (3)   During the extended review period and before taking action on the
proposed rate, the Village Council or the ICRC shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the Village Council and the ICRC are unable to determine whether
the rate increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on the
material before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing,
the Village Council shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the Village Council or the ICRC needs more time
to ensure that the requested increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate
standard as determined by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the Village Council has not made a decision within the 90 to 150
day period, the Village Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the Village Council or the ICRC shall
hold at least one public hearing at which interested persons may empress their
views and record objections.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the secretary to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted. in order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the secretary with the objector's name
and address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the Village Council is unable to make a
final determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended
time period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the Village Council later issued a decision disapproving
any portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC's price cap, the Village
Council shall review the rate using a price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Village Council's findings,
the basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates; or
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the Village Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the Village Council will review the submission pursuant the FCC standards for
cost-of-service review. The Village Council may approve a rate increase above
the price cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost-of-service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or-below
the cable operator's then current rate will prescribe the cable operator's new
rate.
   (I)   Decision. The Village Council's decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increases, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the secretary to record the objection or may be submitted in
writing at anytime before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The Village Council may order refunds of subscribers' rate payments
with interest if:
         (a)   The Village Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) above;
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The Village Council determines that the rate increase as
submitted exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to
justify the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the Village Council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method of paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the Village Council's decision
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The Village Council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 94-O-5, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 112.53   CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   Required information.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the Village
Council or the ICRC may require the cable operator to produce information in
addition to that submitted, including proprietary information, if needs to make
a rate determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the
information be kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the Village Council or the ICRC may request additional
information only in order to document that the cable operator's rates are in
accord with the standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the Village Council may
request in writing that the information may be made routinely available for
public inspection.
      (2)   A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of the
information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
(Ord. 94-O-5, passed 4-11-1994)
CHAPTER 113: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool and Billiard Tables
   
113.01   License fees
   
113.02   Pool and billiard tables
Circus or Carnival
   
113.15   Circuses, menageries, and carnivals
   
113.16   Deposit required
   
113.17   License fee
   
113.18   Fee may be waived
Pinball Machines
   
113.30   Pinball and similar amusement machines
   
113.31   Definitions
   
113.32   License fees
   
113.33   Application for license
   
113.34   [Reserved]
   
113.35   Mechanical requirements
   
113.36   Playing by minors prohibited
   
113.37   Transfer of license
   
113.38   Inspection by police
   
113.39   Change of location
   
113.40   Information to be furnished by distributors
   
113.41   Revocation
   
113.42   Seizure and destruction
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Admissions tax, see §§
39.01 et seq.
   General license provisions, see
Ch. 110
POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES
§ 113.01   LICENSE FEES.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table shall pay an annual license fee
of $50 for one such table and $5 for each additional table.
(1995 Code, § 113.01)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.02   POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES.
   (A)   No person owning, operating, or having custody of any establishment
containing pool or billiard tables for public use shall permit any person to
play or use any pool or billiard table between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 9:00
a.m.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a pool or
billiard table after hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(1995 Code, § 113.02)
Penalty, see § 113.99
CIRCUS OR CARNIVAL
§ 113.15   CIRCUSES, MENAGERIES, AND CARNIVALS.
   (A)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage, or give a circus, menagerie,
carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment, or exhibition of
monsters or freaks of nature, for which money or reward is demanded or
received, shall first obtain a license and pay the license fee provided herein.
   (B)   The applicant for a license to conduct, stage, or give such exhibition
shall give at least one week's notice in writing to the Village Manager stating
the dates of the performances, and the location at which they are to be
presented. The Village Manager shall give his or her consent to the issuance of
such license if he or she deems the location suitable for the purpose, that it
will properly accommodate the patrons, that the nature of the performance or
exhibition is morally proper, and the use of the location will not throw too
great a burden on the Police and Fire Departments.
   (C)   No circus, menagerie, or carnival shall be given for more than two
consecutive days, except in cases where Council by special resolution shall
allow a longer period, or where such exhibition is to be conducted on village
property and the use thereof for a longer period shall have been approved by
Council.
(1995 Code, § 113.15)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.16   DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   At the time such application for a license is made, where use of village
ground is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the Clerk a cash bond
of not less than $10, nor more than $50, conditioned on the restoration and
cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the Village Manager. In
the event the grounds shall be restored and cleaned up properly following the
exhibition, the deposit shall be returned, otherwise the same shall be
forfeited to the village.
(1995 Code, § 113.16)
§ 113.17   LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for each circus, carnival, side show, musical or minstrel
entertainment, or exhibition of monsters or freaks of nature shall be $25 per
week for such license.
(1995 Code, § 113.17)
§ 113.18   FEE MAY BE WAIVED.
   The Village Manager may, in his or her discretion, grant without cost a
license for the holding of a circus, carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel
entertainment for not more than six consecutive days, where all of the
performances are fostered and supervised by civic interests of the village, and
a substantial part of the funds derived therefrom is expended for charitable or
civic purposes.
(1995 Code, § 113.13)
PINBALL MACHINES
§ 113.30   PINBALL AND SIMILAR AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of selling,
leasing, renting, operating, or exhibiting pinball machines, without first
obtaining a license to do so and conforming to the regulations provided for
such business in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 113.30) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.31   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, firm, or corporation which sells, leases, rents, or
otherwise operates pinball machines within the village.
   EXHIBITOR. A person, firm, or corporation owning or conducting a place of
business in the village and operating one or more pinball machines at such
place of business.
   PINBALL MACHINES. Pinball machines, marble machines, and any similar
amusement devices operated by the insertion of a coin, disc, or other insertion
piece, and which registers or may register a score after the insertion of such
coin, disc, or other insertion piece. It shall not include coin-operated
vending machines, music machines, motion picture machines, or other machines or
devices used bona fide and solely for the vending of service, food,
merchandise, or entertainment.
(1995 Code, § 113.31) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
§ 113.32   LICENSE FEES.
   Every distributor shall pay an annual fee of $100 and each exhibitor shall
pay an annual fee of $5 plus a fee of $25, for each pinball machine maintained
or exhibited. An exhibitor operating at more than one location, shall pay a
license fee for each location. Each license shall run for a period of one year,
beginning January 1, of each year.
(1995 Code, § 113.32) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
§ 113.33   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for distributor's and exhibitor's licenses or for pinball
machine licenses shall be made to the Mayor. Applications for distributor's
licenses shall in particular, set forth the places of business and residence of
the distributor. If the distributor is a firm, the place of residence of all
the partners shall be furnished. If the distributor is a corporation, the place
of residence of the chief business manager or other controlling executive
officer shall be furnished. Applications for exhibitor licenses shall, in
addition state the number of pinball machines for which licenses are requested
and the location of the premises, and the particular room on the premises, in
which such pinball machines are to be exhibited. If the Mayor is satisfied that
the applicant has complied with all the provisions of this and the following
sections, and is otherwise eligible to be a licensee, he or she shall issue the
license on payment of the fees. The license stamps for pinball machines shall
specify the locations in which they are to be exhibited and maintained. Each
license stamp shall be attached to the machine for which it is issued, so as to
be in plain view of the persons playing the same.
(1995 Code, § 113.33) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
§ 113.34   [RESERVED]
§ 113.35   MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for an exhibitor, or other person to exhibit, operate,
or have in his or her possession a pinball machine which is so constructed as
to make possible, either directly or by the use of adjustment, the return of
cash, tickets, discs, or other tokens or certificates of any kind to a player
operating the same, whether or not such tokens or certificates have a value of
any kind, or authorize further playing or other privileges. Only machines
operated exclusively for the amusement provided by the operation thereof shall
be licensed.
(1995 Code, § 113.35) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99(B)
§ 113.36   PLAYING BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an exhibitor, or his or her employee or agent of
one or more pinball machines to permit the same to be played or used by a
person under 18 years of age during the hours in which the local public schools
are in session.
(1995 Code, § 113.36) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.37   TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   When the business of a distributor or exhibitor is sold, or otherwise
transferred, the license of such distributor or exhibitor may be transferred to
the transferee with the consent of the Village Manager for the remainder of the
license period, if the latter shall be satisfied that such successor would be
eligible to receive a new license. The transfer of an exhibitor's license shall
carry with it his or her transfer of the pinball machine license issued to him
or her, but such transfer shall be noted on the books of the village, and on
the license stamps issued for pinball machines.
(1995 Code, § 113.37) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
§ 113.38   INSPECTION BY POLICE.
   All pinball machines and all premises in which such machines are maintained
or exhibited, shall be open to inspection by the police at all times.
(1995 Code, § 113.28) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.39   CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   No licensed pinball machine shall be removed from one premises to another or
from one room to another room on the same premises, unless the new location
shall be approved by the Village Manager.
(1995 Code, § 113.29) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.40   INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY DISTRIBUTORS.
   Not later than the fifth day of each month, every distributor shall furnish
the Village Manager with a list of all new contracts for the sale, leasing, or
renting of one or more pinball machines entered into during the preceding
month, with persons residing or doing business in the village, giving the names
and addresses of such persons and the dates of the contracts. The Village
Manager shall file such reports and maintain them for the inspection of the
police, for the period of not less than one year.
(1995 Code, § 113.40) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.41   REVOCATION.
   Should any distributor or exhibitor violate or fail to comply with any of
the provisions of §§
113.30 through
113.42, it shall be the duty of the Village Manager to revoke his or her
license. In case of revocation of an exhibitor's license, the licenses of all
machines operated by him or her on his or her premises, shall be revoked and
such machines removed from the premises within 24 hours thereafter. A
distributor or exhibitor whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible
to apply for or receive a new license within the period of one year after the
revocation.
(1995 Code, § 113.41) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.42   SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION.
   If any pinball machine is used as a gambling device or is otherwise operated
contrary to the provisions of the laws of the state or of this chapter, such
machines may, in the discretion of the Village Manager, be seized and
destroyed, as in the case of gaming devices.
(1995 Code, § 113.42) (Ord. 11-1953, passed 7-15-1953)
§ 113.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any other provisions of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(1995 Code, § 113.99)
CHAPTER 114: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
114.01   Compliance with Zoning Code
   
114.02   Approval of Plan Commission; fences
   
114.03   Notice of violation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01   COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING CODE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a junkyard, or wood yard, or
engage in the business of salvage waste, or used material of any kind in a zone
other than that designated by the Zoning Code.
(1995 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 8-1955, passed 7-18-1955)
Penalty, see § 114.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned and junk vehicles, see §§
93.65 et seq.
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 153
§ 114.02   APPROVAL OF PLAN COMMISSION; FENCES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a junkyard, wood yard,
or salvage waste or used material business without first obtaining approval
from the Plan Commission.
   (B)   All such businesses shall have a fence around the premises of lumber
or corrugated steel, asbestos, or cement masonry so as to obstruct the view of
the public.
(1995 Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 8-1955, passed 7-18-1955)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.03   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Continued violation of the contents of this chapter after notice of
prosecution shall be an additional violation and offense for each day of such
continuance.
   (B)   No prosecution shall be commenced hereunder until at least one day's
notice has been given to the owner of the business.
(1995 Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 8-1955, passed 7-18-1955)
§ 114.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$100.
(1995 Code, § 114.99)
CHAPTER 115: HOTELS, MOTELS AND ROOMING HOUSES
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   License fee
   
115.03   Guest register required
   
115.04   Guest to sign register on arrival
   
115.05   Guest register open for inspection
   
115.06   Posting of law required in each room
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A motel, hotel, lodging house, or other building containing
two or more furnished rooms for sleeping or lodging purposes and offered to the
public for rental or hire.
(1995 Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947; Am. Ord. 6-1953, passed
3-16-1953; Am. Ord. 7-1960, passed 2-1-1960)
§ 115.02   LICENSE FEE.
   Every owner or operator of a rooming house, shall obtain an annual permit at
a cost of $50 per year for each business establishment.
(1995 Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947; Am. Ord. 6-1953, passed
3-16-1953; Am. Ord. 7-1960, passed 2-1-1960)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.03   GUEST REGISTER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a rooming house or let a room for occupancy therein,
unless a guest register is maintained at the same in accordance with this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.04   GUEST TO SIGN REGISTER ON ARRIVAL.
   The owner, or manager, shall require each person to whom a room is let to
sign his or her name and address in the register prior to his or her renting,
or occupying the room.
(1995 Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.05   GUEST REGISTER OPEN FOR INSPECTION.
   The guest register shall be opened at all times for inspection by members of
the Police Department or the Health Department.
(1995 Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947)
§ 115.06   POSTING OF LAW REQUIRED IN EACH ROOM.
   A copy of this chapter shall be posted at all times in a conspicuous place
in every rooming house.
(1995 Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$200, or by confinement for not more than 30 days or both.
(1995 Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 46-1947, passed 10-9-1947)
CHAPTER 116: RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND HOMES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Exemptions
   
116.03   Application for license
   
116.04   License fee
   
116.05   Compliance
   
116.06   Inspections of homes
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General license provisions, see
Ch. 110
§ 116.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDING HOME. Any place, residence, or home used for the reception, limited
care, or supervision for a consideration of three or more persons not related
to the proprietor who by reason of infancy, age, infirmity, or physical
disability are dependent on the services of others, and in need of supervision
of an adult.
   CARE IN A NURSING HOME. Personal services such as help in walking, getting
out of bed, assistance in bathing, help in dressing and feeding, and in
addition, services which require training or skill beyond that of the ordinary
layman, for example a bed bath, enemas, irrigations, catheterizations,
application of bandages and dressings, and administration of medicines and
carrying out other treatments prescribed by a physician requiring a like level
of complexity and skill in operation.
   LIMITED CARE IN A BOARDING HOME. Help in walking, help in getting in and out
of bed, assistance in bathing, help in dressing or feeding, preparation of
meals, supervision over medication which can be self-administered, and similar
types of assistance.
   NURSING HOME. Any place, residence, or home used for the reception and care
for a consideration of three or more persons not members of the immediate
family of the person operating such facilities who by reason of infancy, age,
or infirmity are dependent on the services of others.
   SUPERVISION IN A BOARDING HOME. Responsibility for a child's attendance in
school, responsibility for a child's general welfare, responsibility for the
discipline of a child, responsibility for the purchase of clothing and food for
a child with or without the assistance of a governmental or private social
welfare or clinical agency, and similar types of duties.
(1995 Code, § 116.01) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 116.02   EXEMPTIONS.
   The institutions set forth above may be operated by an individual,
partnership, or corporation who complies with this chapter except that
established religious, fraternal, or charitable corporations not for profit and
instrumentalities of the federal, state, or village governments shall be
exempted from any fee or provisions provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 116.02) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 116.03   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any individual, corporation, or partnership desiring to operate any of the
institutions covered by this chapter shall first comply with all regulations
and state statutes relating to those institutions whether so denominated by
state provisions or not, and then such party shall make application for a
license to so operate those institutions by filing with the Finance Director a
written request for a permit setting forth the following information:
   (A)   The location or proposed location of the nursing home or boarding
home;
   (B)   The purpose for which it is to be opened;
   (C)   The number of rooms to be occupied;
   (D)   The number of admittees in each room, and whether such admittees will
be adults or children or both;
   (E)   The name and address of the physician to be retained should there be
one in the care of a boarding home and all cases in a nursing home;
   (F)   The name and address of the agency placing such admittees, if there be
any; and
   (G)    The name and address of the person or agency responsible for the
support of the admittees, if there be any.
(1995 Code, § 116.03) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.04   LICENSE FEE.
   On any application made to the Finance Director under §
116.03 there shall be an application fee of $5. If such application is
accepted, there shall be a license fee of $50 for boarding homes and nursing
homes except for child care only the fee shall be $25. Such license shall be
valid for one year and shall be renewed by payment of $50 and $25 respectively.
(1995 Code, § 116.04) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 116.05   COMPLIANCE.
   The structure in which the boarding or nursing homes are to be lodged shall
comply with all zoning, building, health, and other regulations of the village.
On filing of the application all respective departments shall make a strict
investigation of the location or the plans for the proposed location, and on
finding that the location or the plans for the proposed location are in
accordance with applicable law, the Finance Director shall issue a license to
operate a boarding home or a nursing home or as the case may be.
(1995 Code, § 116.05) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 116.06   INSPECTIONS OF HOMES.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner under the direction of the Village Manager
shall at all times have access to the boarding or nursing homes for purposes of
inspection, and is authorized and empowered to inspect the same or cause the
inspection thereof to be made whenever and as often as he or she may deem
proper. If on examination the Building Commissioner shall find that a home is
being conducted, managed, or maintained in violation of any ordinance or
regulation of the village or of any state laws, he or she shall report same to
the licensee by registered mail. A notice of suspension shall show the period
involved which shall not exceed 30 days. The Finance Director shall suspend or
revoke the license within ten days after receiving the returned unopened notice
of the suspension or revocation to the receipt thereof signed by the licensee
or his or her duly authorized agent.
   (B)   Should the license of a home be revoked or suspended under this
section, the licensee shall have the right to appeal the action to the Board of
Appeals of the village which on receipt of the notice of appeal shall hold the
revocation or suspension in abeyance pending its decision. The Board of Appeals
shall fix a date of hearing and shall notify the Finance Director and the
licensee. The Board shall have full power to affirm, modify, or reserve the
decision of the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   In the event of revocation or suspension, the licensee shall surrender
his or her license immediately and within 30 days relocate all admittees in
approved housing.
(1995 Code, § 116.06) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
§ 116.99   PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, or corporation conducting, managing, or
maintaining a nursing home or boarding home within the village, without first
obtaining a permit or being exempted by this chapter, or in violation of any of
the terms of this chapter shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
separate offense is considered as having been committed for each and every day
on which any person, firm, association, or corporation shall be guilty of any
such violation, failure, or refusal to comply with the provisions of this
chapter,
(1995 Code, § 116.99) (Ord. 1-1963, passed 1-7-1963)
CHAPTER 117: TAXICABS
Section
Owner
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   Application for license
   
117.04   Issuance of license
   
117.05   Suspension or revocation
   
117.06   Liability insurance or bond
   
117.07   Extent of liability
   
117.08   Limitations on use of public vehicles
   
117.09   Identification
   
117.10   Rates of fare
   
117.11   Appeals
Drivers
   
117.20   Driver's permit; fee
 
   
117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cruising in taxicab, see §
73.45
OWNER
§ 117.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER OF PUBLIC VEHICLE. The person who has good title thereto by a lawful
bill of sale or certificate of title, and who in the conduct of his or her
business operates, or rents the vehicle.
   TAXICAB. Any public vehicle whose owner or driver secures or accepts a
passenger or passengers for hire on the public streets or on public or quasi-
public places or accepts a passenger or passengers for him or her on hail, or
request, made in the public street or on public or quasi-public places.
(1995 Code, § 117.02) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.02   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No firm or corporation or any owner, agent, employee, or driver, shall
operate or permit to be operated a vehicle as a public vehicle, or to offer the
services of such a vehicle as a vehicle by solicitation by voice, by sign,
public advertisement, or otherwise, unless the proper license has been issued
to the owner thereof and is in force.
   (B)   Every license shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it is
issued. In the case of license issued for the operation after July 1 of any
year, the fee shall be 1/2 of the per annum fee. License fees for each taxicab
shall be payable to the Finance Director in the amount of $25 per annum.
   (C)   The license fee required by this section shall be in addition to any
fee required by the state laws.
(1995 Code, § 117.02) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947; Am. Ord. 8-1953, passed
4-6-1953)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.03   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for license for public vehicles shall be made to the
Village Clerk on blanks provided by the Clerk, and shall set forth the name
under which he or she does business, the class of each vehicle to be licensed,
the seating capacity, the color scheme and lettering, and marks to be used on
vehicles and any other information desired by the Clerk.
   (B)   If the application is granted the applicant shall furnish the Clerk
prior to the issuance of the license with information as to the state license
numbers, the length of time the vehicle has been in use, the motor power
thereof, and the name and address of the person, firm, or corporation from
which the vehicle was purchased, and any other information required by the
Clerk pertinent to the issuance of the license.
(1995 Code, § 117.03) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.04   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Clerk shall investigate, and hold a hearing to determine as to
each application if public necessity and convenience requires it. After such
hearing he or she shall forthwith notify the applicant of his or her findings.
The applicant shall forthwith furnish the Clerk with the additional information
required, and if the Clerk finds that the applicant is the owner of the vehicle
for which license is desired, that such vehicle is a safe and fit conveyance,
and that it complies with all requirements of the code of ordinances, he or she
shall forthwith issue licenses for payment to the Finance Director of the fee
required, and the furnishing of the bond or issuance required.
   (B)   If the applicant does not comply with the requirements of this section
within 60 days, the findings shall be null and void.
   (C)   If the Clerk finds from such investigation and hearing that public
necessity and convenience do not justify the operation of the vehicle for which
license is required, he or she shall forthwith notify the applicant of his or
her findings.
   (D)   All owners of taxicabs licensed or hereafter licensed, shall at the
completion of the year be entitled to have their licenses renewed without a
finding of convenience and necessity, providing all other requirements are met.
(1995 Code, § 117.04) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.05   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any person holding one or more taxicab licenses issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, may on application, obtain the suspension of any
number of licenses. The Clerk shall hold a hearing to determine as to the
feasibility, and if so found, on surrender of tags, he or she shall hold for a
period of two years at the end of which time the licenses shall be
automatically revoked.
(1995 Code, § 117.05) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.06   LIABILITY INSURANCE OR BOND.
   (A)   No license to operate any public vehicle shall be issued or renewed by
the Clerk, and it shall be unlawful to operate any public vehicle, or permit
such to be operate, unless and until the applicant shall deposit with the Clerk
a policy, or policies, of liability insurance issued by a responsible insurance
company, approved as to sufficiency by the treasurer, and as to legality by the
Law Director providing indemnity for or protection to the insured, against loss
in the amounts provided for in §
117.07 and agreeing to pay, within the limits of the amounts fixed in the
section, to any judgment creditor who shall have filed notice of a claim for
such loss with the Finance Director during the license year in which the injury
occurred, or six months thereafter, any final judgment rendered against the
insured by reason of the liability of the insured to pay damages to others for
bodily injuries, including death at anytime resulting therefrom, and for
damages to or destruction of property sustained during the term of the policy
by any other person than the insured, and employees of the insured, and
resulting from negligent operation, maintenance or use of such licensed public
vehicle.
   (B)   The policy of insurance aforesaid and the bond given in lieu thereof,
as hereinafter referred to, shall provide that in case the vehicle is operated,
maintained, or used with the consent or acquiescence of the owner, by one other
than the owner, his or her agent, or employee, and an injury results to persons
or property as indicated above, due to the negligent operation, maintenance, or
use of the vehicle, that the insurer or the obligors in the bond, as the case
may be, shall pay to any judgment creditor of the person so maintaining, using,
or operating the vehicle, any final judgment rendered against the person so
maintaining, using, or operating the vehicle, provided that such judgment
creditor shall have filed his or her suit, or filed notice of claim for such
loss in all respects as is provided for the judgment creditor of the insured in
division (A).
   (C)   The policy or policies of insurance, and the bond hereinbefore
required, shall be valid and effective for the same period for which the
license is issued.
(1995 Code, § 117.06) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.07   EXTENT OF LIABILITY.
   The extent of the liability of the insurer or sureties shall be, as to any
one licensed public vehicle the sum of $50,000, on account of injuries to, or
death of, any one person in any one accident, and subject to such limit as
respects injury to, or death of, one person, $100,000 on account of any one
accident resulting in injury to or death of more than one person, and $1,000 on
account of damage to property in any one accident.
(1995 Code, § 117.07) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.08   LIMITATIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation, or any owner, agent, employee, or
driver of a public vehicle shall:
      (1)   Operate over any fixed or regular route;
      (2)   Pass any specified point on a fixed or regular time schedule for
the purpose of picking up passengers;
      (3)   When hired, accept other passengers for compensation, or accept
payment for transportation from any other person than the person who has hired
the vehicle, or make any charge to the person so hiring the vehicle other than
in accordance with the rates on file with the village as provided in §
117.10; or
      (4)   Pick up parties on the public streets or public places or solicit
patronage for a vehicle already hired.
   (B)   Nothing contained in divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above shall apply
where the public vehicle, is operated under a special trip rate under a
multiple rate as provided by §
117.10.
(1995 Code, § 117.08) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.09   IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every person owning and operating a taxicab under licenses from the
village may adopt a trade name, design, color scheme, or method of painting or
lettering such taxicabs that is approved by the Clerk. Such trade name, design,
color scheme, or method of painting or lettering shall include the following
matter:
      (1)   A serial body number assigned by the village to each taxicab and
painted on each side and on the rear of the taxicab;
      (2)   The name of the owner, or the trade name under which he, she or it
does business, painted on each side of the taxicab; and
      (3)   Whenever the name of the owner, or the trade name under which he,
she or it does business, does not include any one of the words “taxicab,”
“taxi,” or “cab” then the word “taxicab” shall be painted on each side of the
taxicab immediately beneath the name or trade name.
   (B)   Whenever any person owning or operating taxicabs does not adopt and
use an approved trade name, design, color scheme, or method of painting and
lettering as hereinbefore mentioned, then it shall be mandatory for the person
to paint on its taxicabs a framed panel, enclosing on separate lines the name
of the owner, the word “taxicab” and the serial body number assigned to the
taxicab by the village. Such panel shall be painted on each side of the
taxicab, and shall cover no less area than 10 inches by 12 inches.
(1995 Code, § 117.09) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.10   RATES OF FARE.
   (A)   Determination. All fares or charges for the use of a taxicab shall be
determined by:
      (1)   The hourly rate;
      (2)   The special trip rate; or
      (3)   The multiple rate and by no other method.
   (B)   Rate of fare set. Such rate of fare shall be as set by Council.
   (C)   Revocation for misrepresentation. Whenever it shall appear on
investigation and hearing by the Clerk, that a license issued hereunder has
been obtained by misrepresentation, the village shall notify the Finance
Director of such fact and the Finance Director shall thereupon revoke the
license.
(1995 Code, § 117.10) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
§ 117.11   APPEALS.
   Whenever the Clerk shall have refused to authorize a public vehicle license,
or whenever the Finance Director has suspended or revoked a public vehicle
license, the applicant, within ten days after receiving notice of such denial,
suspension, or revocation, may appeal to the Village Manager. The Village
Manager may either consider such appeal on the evidence produced before the
Clerk, or permit the introduction of new evidence, inspections, and tests. The
decision of the Village Manager shall be final. However, when the Clerk's
refusal of a license shall be on the grounds of public necessity and
convenience, then the applicant within ten days after receiving such notice of
such refusal, may appeal to the Village Council. The Council may either
consider such appeal on the evidence produced before the Clerk, or permit the
introduction of new evidence, inspections, and tests. The decision of the
Village Council shall be final.
(1995 Code, § 117.11) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
DRIVERS
§ 117.20   DRIVER'S PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Before any person shall drive, operate, or otherwise control, while in
use for hire on the streets of the village, any public taxi or other vehicle
for carrying passengers for hire, for his or her own account or for some other
person or firm, he or she shall make application to the Village Manager of the
village for a permit, and if it appears that the applicant is of sufficient age
and discretion, of fair character and integrity, and not addicted to the use of
intoxicating liquors or narcotics, and is a suitable person to engage in the
business of operating and driving a public taxi or vehicle carrying passengers
for hire in the village, the Village Manager shall issue a permit to such
applicant, and such permit shall be issued under seal of the village and shall
be good for one year, expiring December 31 of each year unless sooner revoked
by the Village Manager for good cause shown on hearing of which the party
(licensee) shall have a reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   The Village Manager on granting such permit shall receive therefore a
fee in the amount of $1.
(1995 Code, § 117.20) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation, or any owner, agent, employee, or
driver of a public vehicle who violates any of the provisions of this chapter,
or any amendments thereto, for which no other punishment is specified, shall be
fined not more than $100.
   (B)   Any person operating, permitting to be operated, or offering to
operate a vehicle as a public vehicle without first having obtained the
appropriate license therefor, shall be fined not more than $100; and in the
event of conviction, such person shall not thereafter be granted a license for
the vehicle concerned for a period of three months for a first conviction and
one year for a subsequent conviction.
(1995 Code, § 117.99) (Ord. 14-1947, passed 2-10-1947)
CHAPTER 118: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Permit requirements and exemptions
   
118.03   Permit for sponsoring juvenile peddlers
   
118.04   Permit application
   
118.05   Fees
   
118.06   Application review and permit issuance
   
118.07   Denial of permit
   
118.08   Permit expiration
   
118.09   Identification badges
   
118.10   Permit exhibition
   
118.11   Transfer prohibited
   
118.12   Entry upon signed premises unlawful
   
118.13   Hours of solicitation
   
118.14   Permit revocation
   
118.15   Notice and hearing
   
118.16   Appeals
   
118.17   Claims of exemption
   
118.18   Severability
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social services,
health, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic, cultural or fraternal, either
actual or purported.
   CONTRIBUTIONS. Include the words alms, money, subscription, property or any
donations under the guise of a loan or money or property.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
the village, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, carrying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise or personal property of any nature and
offering the same for sale. This definition also includes any person who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as
part of the scheme to evade the provisions of this chapter.
   PEDDLING. Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a peddler as
indicated under the definition of peddler as defined in this section.
   PERSON. A natural person or any firm, corporation, association, club,
society or other organization.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
the village, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, for the purpose
of taking or attempting to take orders for the sales of goods, merchandise,
wares, or other personal property of any nature for future delivery, or for
services to be performed in the future. This definition also includes any
person who, without invitation, goes upon private property, to request
contribution of funds or anything of value, or sell goods or services for
political, charitable, religious, or other non-commercial purposes.
   SOLICITATION. Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a solicitor as
indicated under the definition of solicitor as defined in this section.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.02   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 18 years of age or older to engage in
peddling or solicitation activities within the Village of Lincoln Heights
without first obtaining a permit issued by the Village Manager; provided,
however, that the following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Any solicitation made upon premises owned or occupied by an
organization upon whose behalf the solicitation is made;
   (B)   Any communication by an organization soliciting contributions solely
from persons who are members of the organization at the time of such
solicitation;
   (C)   Any solicitation in the form of a collection at a regular meeting,
assembly or service of a charitable person; or
   (D)   Any solicitation for the relief of any individual specified by name at
the time of the solicitation where the solicitor represents in each case that
the entire amount collected shall be turned over to the named beneficiary.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.03   PERMIT FOR SPONSORING JUVENILE PEDDLERS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted to engage in peddling
except as provided in this section.
   (B)   A permit shall be obtained by a sponsoring person, company or
organization for the conduct of any peddling or solicitation activities
involving, in whole or in part, a sales force of one or more persons under 18
years of age.
   (C)   The sponsor shall be responsible for supervising and controlling the
conduct of all persons, including juveniles, peddling under the sponsor's
permit.
   (D)   The sponsor shall provide to each individual in its sales force a
badge or other easily readable form of identification which identifies the name
of the sponsor and the name of the individual. The sponsor shall require all
individuals in its sales force to wear such identification so that it is
clearly visible at all times when the individuals are peddling or soliciting.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.04   PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Every person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall file with the
Village Manager an application in writing on a form to be furnished by him or
her, which shall provide the following information:
   (A)   Proof of age, address and identification of the applicant, to be
provided through the applicant's driver's license, articles of incorporation
(for sponsors), or other legally recognized form of identification;
   (B)   A brief description of the business or activity to be conducted;
   (C)   The hours and location for which the right to peddle or solicit is
desired;
   (D)   If employed, the name, address and telephone number of the employer;
or if acting as an agent, the name, address and telephone number of the
principal who is being represented, with credentials in written form
establishing the relationship and the authority of the employee or agent to act
for the employer or principal, as the case may be;
   (E)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of a
felony, misdemeanor or ordinance violation (other than traffic violations), the
nature of the offense or violation, the penalty or punishment imposed, the date
when and place where such offense occurred, and other pertinent details
thereof; and
   (F)   Proof of possession of any license or permit which, under federal,
state or local laws or regulations, the applicant is required to have in order
to conduct the proposed business, or which, under any such law or regulation,
would exempt the applicant from the licensing requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.05   FEES.
   Every itinerant vendor shall obtain a license before engaging in business,
and shall pay therefore a fee of $200 per year and such license shall expire 1
day after the year of its issuance.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998; Am. Ord. 2007-O-12, passed 1-22-2007)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.06   APPLICATION REVIEW AND PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Village Manager, or authorized
representative, shall review the application as deemed necessary to ensure the
protection of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   If the Village Manager finds the application to be satisfactory, he or
she shall endorse his or her approval on the application and shall, upon
payment of the prescribed fee, deliver the required permit to the applicant.
   (C)   The permit shall show the name, address of the permittee, the class of
permit issued, the kind of goods or services to be sold or delivered, the date
of issuance, and the length of time that the permit shall be in effect. The
permit shall also show the permit number and identifying description of any
vehicle to be used in carrying on the business for which the permit is issued.
   (D)   A record of all permits issued shall be maintained by the Village
Manager for a period of two years.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.07   DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon review, the Village Manager may refuse to issue a permit to the
applicant under this chapter for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The location and time of solicitation or peddling would endanger
the safety and welfare of the solicitors, peddlers or their customers;
      (2)   An investigation reveals that the applicant falsified information
on the application;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor or
ordinance violation involving a sex offense, trafficking in controlled
substances, or any violent acts against persons or property, such conviction
being entered within the five years preceding the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant is a person against whom a judgment based upon, or
conviction for, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation has been entered within the
five years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (5)   There is no proof as to the authority of the applicant to serve as
an agent to the principal; or
      (6)   The applicant has been denied a permit under this chapter within
the immediate past year, unless the applicant can and does show to the
satisfaction of the Village Manager that the reasons for such earlier denial no
longer exist.
   (B)   The Village Manager's disapproval and the reasons for disapproval
shall be noted on the application, and the applicant shall be notified that his
or her application is disapproved and that no permit will be issued. Notice
shall be mailed to the applicant at the address shown on the application form,
or at the applicant's last known address.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.08   PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   All permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire one
year from the date of issuance, unless an earlier expiration date is noted on
the permit.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.09   IDENTIFICATION BADGES.
   At the same time the permit is issued, the Village Manager shall issue to
each permittee a badge, which shall be worn by the permittee in such a way as
to be conspicuous at all times while the permittee is soliciting or peddling in
the village.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.10   PERMIT EXHIBITION.
   Every person required to obtain a permit under the provisions of this
chapter shall exhibit the permit when requested to do so by any prospective
customer or department employee.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.11   TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the permittee to use or wear
any permit or badge issued under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.12   ENTRY UPON SIGNED PREMISES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or unlicensed, while
conducting the business of a peddler or solicitor, to enter upon any
residential premises in the village where the owner, occupant or person legally
in charge of the premises has posted, at the entry to the premises, or at the
entry to the principal building on the premises, a sign bearing the words "No
Peddlers," "No Solicitors," or words of similar import.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.13   HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   No person, while conducting the activities of a peddler or solicitor,
whether licensed or unlicensed, shall enter upon any private property, knock on
doors or otherwise disturb persons in their residences between the hours of 9:
00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.14   PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the
Village Manager, after notice and hearing, for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a permit;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made by the permittee in
the course of conducting solicitation or peddling activities;
   (C)   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities contrary to the
provisions contained in the permit;
   (D)   Conviction for any crime involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities in such a manner as to
create a public nuisance, constitute a breach of the peace or endanger the
health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.15   NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Notice of a hearing for revocation of a permit issued under this chapter
shall be provided in writing and shall set forth specifically the grounds for
the proposed revocation and the time and place of the hearing. Notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the permittee at the address shown on the permit
application or at the last known address of the permittee.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.16   APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the action or decision of the Village Manager
to deny, suspend or revoke a permit applied for under the provisions of this
chapter shall have the right to appeal such action or decision to the Council
within 15 days after the notice of the action or decision has been mailed to
the person's address as shown on the permit application form, or to his or her
last known address.
   (B)   An appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Manager a written
statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   The Village Manager shall transmit the written statement to the
Council within ten days of its receipt and the Council shall set a time and
place for a hearing on the appeal.
   (D)   A hearing shall be set not later than 20 days from the date of receipt
of the appellant's written statement.
   (E)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given to the
appellant in the same manner as provided for the mailing of notice of action or
decision.
   (F)   The decision of the Council on the appeal shall be final and binding
on all parties concerned.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.17   CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION.
   Any person claiming to be legally exempt from the regulations set forth in
this chapter, or from the payment of a permit fee, shall cite to the Village
Manager the statute or other legal authority under which exemption is claimed
and shall present to the Village Manager proof of qualification for such
exemption.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.18   SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable.
   (B)   If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of the chapter shall for
any reason be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decisions shall not affect the validity of the remaining
sections, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this chapter, but they shall
remain in effect; it being the legislative intent that this chapter shall
remain in effect notwithstanding the validity of any part.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 118.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter on a second offense is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree; and on each subsequent offense
such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. 98-O-18, passed 5-11-1998)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
   
133.   SEX OFFENSES
   
134.   GAMBLING
   
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
   
137.   (RESERVED)
   
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
   
139.   MISCELLANEOUS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Notification of certain convictions
   
130.14   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.15   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.16   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.17   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.18   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.19   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.20   Multiple sentences
   
130.21   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.22   Self defense; limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
Standard Bail-Bonding System
   
130.25   Security for offenses
   
130.26   Forms of security
   
130.27   Cash security
   
130.28   Bond processing fee
 
   
130.98   Fine schedule
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor's Court generally, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01   APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word MISDEMEANORS, as used in this Title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
(1995 Code, § 130.01)
§ 130.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
Ohio R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper;
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority;
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality;
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member's appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 311.07 to aid a
sheriff in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the
person is called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans' home police officer appointed under Ohio R.C. §
5907.02;
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under Ohio R.C. § 306.35(Y);
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under Ohio
R.C. § 4582.04 or 4582.28;
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms; or
      (13)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in Ohio R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of
the offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of Ohio
R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of Ohio R.C. § 2919.22, or
felonious sexual penetration in violation of former Ohio R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association; and
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.01,
2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12,
2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
Ohio R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with Ohio R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; or
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information
service” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually
oriented offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or
more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug
abuse offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense; or
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING, and SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under Ohio R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement; or
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
or
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(ORC §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E)) (1995 Code, § 130.02)
§ 130.03   CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100; or
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under Ohio R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under Ohio R.C. § 2929.28.
(ORC § 2901.02) (1995 Code, § 130.03)
§ 130.04   COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(ORC § 2901.03) (1995 Code, § 130.04)
§ 130.05   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Revised Code shall
be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an existing
or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(ORC § 2901.04) (1995 Code, § 130.05)
§ 130.06   LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this
section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred
unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years; or
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of Ohio R.C. § 2903.01 or Ohio R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former
Ohio R.C. § 2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person's legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         (a)   The phrase OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN
OFFICE OF A PUBLIC SERVANT includes, but is not limited to, a violation of R.C.
§ 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A)
or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2)(a).
         (b)   PUBLIC SERVANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2907.02 or
2907.03 is determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable
person and if the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the
offense is committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section
may be commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is within 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five
years after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused's accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused's identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused's purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority; or
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 2935.01.
   (L)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section apply to a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16,
2015, and apply to a violation of either of those sections committed prior to
July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that violation was not barred under this
section as it existed on July 15, 2015.
(ORC § 2901.13) (1995 Code, § 130.06)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see Ohio R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07   REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing; and
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as defined
in Ohio R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor's volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(ORC § 2901.21) (1995 Code, § 130.07)
§ 130.08   CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(ORC § 2901.22) (1995 Code, § 130.08)
§ 130.09   ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances.
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
his or her office or employment, except that if the section defining the
offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for whose conduct the
organization is accountable or the circumstances under which it is accountable,
such provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of his or her office or employment, except that if the section defining
the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for whose conduct the
organization is accountable or the circumstances under which it is accountable,
such provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of his or her office or employment.
   (B)   When strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association, estate, trust, or other commercial or legal entity.
ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a governmental
agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(ORC § 2901.23) (1995 Code, § 130.09)
§ 130.10   PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such
organization, if he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of the offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility; or
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(ORC § 2901.24) (1995 Code, § 130.10)
§ 130.11   ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit
an offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an
attempt is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a
felony, and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a
misdemeanor. In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision
of Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734, other than Ohio R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to
hazardous wastes, an attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. An attempt to commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in
conspiracy, is not an offense under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to division (E)
(1) of this section for an attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in
violation of division (A) of this section, if the offender used a motor vehicle
as the means to attempt to commit the offense, the court shall impose upon the
offender a class two suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege as specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to attempted rape and
also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in Ohio R.C. § 2941.1418, 2941.1419, or 2941.1420, the offender shall be
sentenced to a prison term or term of life imprisonment pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2971.03.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
(ORC § 2923.02) (1995 Code, § 130.11)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see Ohio R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12   COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of Ohio
R.C. § 2923.01; or
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with Ohio
R.C. § 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(ORC § 2923.03) (1995 Code, § 130.12)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see Ohio R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13   NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN CONVICTIONS.
   The Hamilton County Municipal Court Clerk shall notify the chief executive
officer (i.e., the Village Mayor), in writing, on forms to be furnished by the
chief executive officer, of convictions by the court in cases where it is
provided by this code, or by ordinances supplementary or amendatory thereof,
that on such conviction, a license, permit, or privilege shall or may be
revoked or suspended.
(1995 Code, § 130.13)
§ 130.14   PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, a person is presumed
to have acted in self defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (2)   (a)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section
does not apply if the person against whom the defensive force is used has a
right to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section
does not apply if the person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes, but is not limited to, an attached porch, and
a building or conveyance with a roof over it includes, but is not limited to, a
tent.
      PROOF BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT. Proof of such character that an ordinary
person would be willing to rely and act upon it in the most important of the
person’s own affairs.
      REASONABLE DOUBT. Reasonable doubt is present when the jurors, after they
have carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are
firmly convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable
and common sense. REASONABLE DOUBT is not mere possible doubt, because
everything relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to
some possible or imaginary doubt.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
(ORC § 2901.05)
§ 130.15   BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self-defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person's use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(ORC § 2901.06)
§ 130.16   DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under Ohio R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and Ohio R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2923.132 or should be
sentenced for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be
sentenced under Ohio R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a
firearm on or about the person’s person or under the person’s control while
committing a violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm,
indicated that the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to
facilitate the offense.
(ORC § 2901.08)
§ 130.17   CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality; or
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio river extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in Ohio
R.C. § 2913.01.
(ORC § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see Ohio R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.18   DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
Ohio R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under Ohio R.C. Title 45,
except as provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under Ohio R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under Ohio R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
Ohio R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under Ohio R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the
municipality has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in
division (B)(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance
shall pay 25% of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’
reward program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include, but not be limited to, both of the
following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with Ohio R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has
a law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
Ohio R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or Ohio R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(ORC § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3719.11 or
placed in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or
otherwise forfeited to the state for an offense under Ohio R.C. § 4301.45 or
Ohio R.C. § 4301.53 shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the
Division determines that it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody
of the Investigations Unit in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used
for training relating to law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of
Public Safety, with the assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall
adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the
distribution to state or local law enforcement agencies upon their request. If
any tax imposed under Ohio R.C. Title 43 has not been paid in relation to the
beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any moneys acquired from the sale shall
first be used to pay the tax. All other money collected under this division (B)
(1)(d) shall be paid into the State Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or
alcohol that the Division determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized
the mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency
wants the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile
instrumentality subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile
instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under Ohio R.C. §§
4549.61 to 4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in
performing its duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official
vehicle. Parts that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives
of them may be sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of
Public Safety. Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative
of it has been removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are
not suitable for police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be
destroyed and sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the state, or the general fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider,
except as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the
same county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under Ohio R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police
Department of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring
that recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a
citizens’ reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the
territory of the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department
of the recognition of the citizens' reward program only if the county contains
the highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to
pay any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(ORC § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as
contraband, proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981
shall be disposed of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or
Ohio R.C. § 2981.12. If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this
section or Ohio R.C. § 2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the
proposed sale to be given in accordance with law.
(ORC § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.19   IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by Ohio
R.C. § 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that
imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the
offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
Ohio R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(ORC § 2929.22)
§ 130.20   MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, Ohio R.C. §
2929.14(C), or Ohio R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or
sentence of imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison
term, jail term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this
municipality, the state, another state, or the United States. Except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of
imprisonment for misdemeanor shall be served concurrently with a prison term or
sentence of imprisonment for felony served in a state or federal correctional
institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of Ohio R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.04
involving the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served
in a state correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is
to be served consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of
imprisonment and prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one
or more felonies under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of
the consecutive terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed
for a felony before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(ORC § 2929.41)
§ 130.21   APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under Ohio R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written; or
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   (a)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting
the principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2927.27)
§ 130.22 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE and VEHICLE have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this Code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person who lawfully is in that person’s residence has no duty to
retreat before using force in self defense, defense of another, or defense of
that person’s residence, and a person who lawfully is an occupant of that
person’s vehicle or who lawfully is an occupant in a vehicle owned by an
immediate family member of the person has no duty to retreat before using force
in self defense or defense of another.
(ORC § 2901.09)
STANDARD BAIL-BONDING SYSTEM
§ 130.25   SECURITY FOR OFFENSES.
   The standard amount of security for offenses classified as:
   (A)   Misdemeanor of the first degree   $500
   (B)   Misdemeanor of the second degree   $250
   (C)   Misdemeanor of the third degree   $100
   (D)   Misdemeanor of the fourth degree   $50
(1995 Code, § 130.25) (Ord. 76-O-14, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 130.26   FORMS OF SECURITY.
   The following shall be considered forms of security for the purposes of this
subchapter:
   (A)   Real property (real estate);
   (B)   Cash; or
   (C)   Personal (own recognizance).
(1995 Code, § 130.26) (Ord. 76-O-14, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 130.27   CASH SECURITY.
   Cash security will be returned to the surety at a rate of 90% of the amount
deposited.
(1995 Code, § 130.27) (Ord. 76-O-14, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 130.28 BOND PROCESSING FEE.
   The Village of Lincoln Heights Mayor’s Court bond processing fee shall be
$16.00 for every $500.00 ordered by the Magistrate in connection with the
issuance of a Capias and shall be assessed in addition to any other court
costs, fines or fees in effect or imposed by the Magistrate.
(Ord. 2008-O-30, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 130.98   FINE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fine schedule for minor misdemeanors. A fine schedule, which applies
to criminal offenses where the penalty is a minor misdemeanor for guilty pleas
or findings, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this
section.
   (B)   Payment of fine. The fine must be paid by the defendant charged to the
Violations Bureau Clerk during regular business hours within 168 hours of
issuance, unless the payout citation is registered for court.
   (C)   Physical arrest. Physical arrest of any person charged with a minor
misdemeanor is permissible only in cases where:
      (1)   Offender requires medical care or is unable to provide for his or
her own safety;
      (2)   Offender cannot or will not offer satisfactory evidence of his or
her identity; and
      (3)   Offender refuses to sign citation.
(1995 Code, § 130.98) (Ord.78-O-31, passed 10-24-1978; Am.Ord. 79-O-42, passed
11-12-1979; Am. Ord. 96-O-17, passed 8-31-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 2-
16-2007)
§ 130.99   PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(ORC § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(ORC § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.19 or
133.99 of this code or Ohio R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)
(6) of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant
to law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days; or
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01, has
filed a notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility
in which the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16,
2301.56, or 2947.19 and Ohio R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence.
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is
required to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
Ohio R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type
described in Ohio R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional
jail term shall not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Revised Code.
The offender shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to
the jail term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this Code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in Ohio R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that
the victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at
the time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory
jail term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(ORC § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.19 and
133.99 of this code or Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following.
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions; or
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)
(b), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing
violated the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug
possession offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may
consider the offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for
another in good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance
with that division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties
described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(ORC § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family; and/or
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(ORC § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction; or
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(ORC § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2947.23, the court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor,
including a minor misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial
sanction or combination of financial sanctions authorized under this division
(G). If the court in its discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions,
the financial sanctions that may be imposed pursuant to this section include,
but are not limited to, the following.
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
decides to impose restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on
restitution if the offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of
restitution. If the court holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the
victim or survivor has the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence
the amount of restitution sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law.
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under Ohio R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
Ohio R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in Ohio R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the County
Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s general fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by Ohio R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in Ohio R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under Ohio R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G),
a court shall comply with Ohio R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the
clerk may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of
public money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(ORC § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
and
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(ORC § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see Ohio
R.C. § 2935.26
   Crime victim's reparations fund, see Ohio R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see Ohio R.C.
§ 2929.42
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers' compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Motor vehicle with concealed identity
   
131.26   Damaging village property
   
131.27   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property; evidence of
lack of capacity to consent
   
131.28   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.29   Criminal simulation
   
131.30   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
Cross-reference:
   Property recovered by police, deposit of stolen property, see §§
33.50 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see Ohio R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see Ohio
R.C. § 2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see Ohio R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
Ohio R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see Ohio R.C. §
901.511
§ 131.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related,
in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks; and
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors,” “back
doors,” or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   Means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping,” “tcpdump,” and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer's account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
Ohio R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it; or
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 9.60,
or a volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal; or
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of Ohio R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12,
2911.13, 2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11,
2913.21, 2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43,
2913.44, 2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former Ohio R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or
Ohio R.C. § 2913.51, 2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of Ohio R.C.
§ 2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud; or
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(ORC §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (1995 Code, § 131.01)
§ 131.02   ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ORC § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector's item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in Ohio
R.C. § 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to
this section.
(ORC § 2909.11(B) - (D)) (1995 Code, §§ 131.02, 131.05)
Cross-reference:
   Negligent burning, see §
91.38
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson, felony provisions generally, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.03
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see Ohio R.C. §
2929.71
§ 131.03   CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ORC § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY, STREET, and VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01 or any
lane, road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in Ohio
R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2909.09) (1995 Code, § 131.03)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land; or
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
   (B)   As used in this section, SAFETY DEVICE means any fire extinguisher,
fire hose, or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape
equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or
raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of
danger or emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard
railing or safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad
grade crossing sign, signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment,
or any other device, apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or
preserving the safety of persons or property.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief, and
shall be punished as provided in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2909.07) (1995 Code, § 131.04)
§ 131.05   DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AIR GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile not
less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft; or
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties; or
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 1533.68.
(ORC § 2909.08(A) - (E)) (1995 Code, § 131.23)
§ 131.06   CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access; or
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing
the violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, Ohio R.C. § 2911.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing
each violation, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle, the court, in addition to or independent of all other penalties
imposed for the violation, may impound the certificate of registration of that
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle or the certificate of registration and
license plate of that all-purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a
case, Ohio R.C. § 4519.47 applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by Ohio R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE have
the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   LAND or PREMISES includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
(ORC § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of another
with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor, the
elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or causing
another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to him or
her.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of aggravated
trespass, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field,
an athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted; or
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(ORC § 2911.23) (1995 Code, §§ 131.06, 131.061)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.22
§ 131.07   TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2911.32) (1995 Code, § 131.07)
§ 131.08   THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat; or
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in Ohio R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the
suspension shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2929.18 or Ohio R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may
include, but is not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen
property, or the cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue
resulting from deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that
is less than or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was
rented. Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of Ohio R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510.
(ORC § 2913.02) (1995 Code, § 131.08)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see Ohio R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09   UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.03) (1995 Code, § 131.09)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see Ohio R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10   UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY
AND COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under Ohio R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall
knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted
to, or disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement
automated database system created pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 5503.10 without the
consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the Chair
of the Law Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to Ohio R.C.
§ 109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in Ohio R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree; or
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; or
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition; or
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
CABLE SYSTEM does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573; or
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(ORC § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(ORC § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC § 5589.99(B)) (1995 Code, § 131.10)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
Ohio R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11   PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument; or
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later; or
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a
check, bill of exchange, or other draft is presumed to have the purpose to
defraud if the drawer fails to comply with Ohio R.C. § 1349.16 by doing any of
the following when opening a checking account intended for personal, family, or
household purposes at a financial institution:
      (1)   Falsely stating that he or she has not been issued a valid driver's
or commercial driver's license or identification card issued under Ohio R.C. §
4507.50;
      (2)   Furnishing the license or card, or another identification document
that contains false information; or
      (3)   Making a false statement with respect to the drawer's current
address or any additional relevant information reasonably required by the
financial institution.
   (E)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (F)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.11) (1995 Code, § 131.11)
§ 131.12   MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon; or
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law; or
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.21) (1995 Code, § 131.12)
§ 131.13   MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud; or
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC § 2913.33) (1995 Code, § 131.13)
§ 131.14   PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure; or
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(ORC § 2913.41) (1995 Code, § 131.14)
§ 131.15   TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record; or
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.42) (1995 Code, § 131.15)
§ 131.16   SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, or disabled adult, securing writings
by deception is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.43) (1995 Code, § 131.16)
§ 131.17   DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property; or
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.45) (1995 Code, § 131.17)
§ 131.18   RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in Ohio R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(ORC § 2913.51) (1995 Code, § 131.18)
§ 131.19   VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of Ohio R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is
an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by Ohio R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate
value of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under Ohio R.C. § 2913.02, or a series
of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate,
or complicity in violations of Ohio R.C. § 1716.14(A), Ohio R.C. § 2913.02,
2913.03, or 2913.04, Ohio R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or Ohio R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled
adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these
offenses, is committed by the offender in the offender's same employment,
capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a
single offense. When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. The value of the property or services involved in the series of
offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by Ohio R.C. §
2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in all
offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under Ohio R.C. §
2913.02 that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims,
all of the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being
tried for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a
violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Ohio R.C.
§ 1716.14(A), Ohio R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, Ohio R.C. § 2913.21(B)
(1) or (B)(2), or Ohio R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one
victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or
disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of
these offenses, pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those
offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried for
the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of,
conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or
2913.43, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these
offenses, whether committed against one victim or more than one victim,
involving a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an active
duty service member pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those
offenses may be tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a
single offense, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose
of determining the value as required by Ohio R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate
value of all property and services involved in all of the offenses in the
course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under Ohio R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by Ohio R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all
property and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or
more offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of Ohio R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender's same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense.
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value;
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity;
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products;
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services; or
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(ORC § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (1995 Code, § 131.19)
§ 131.20   DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by Ohio
R.C. § 4503.22, a temporary license placard or windshield sticker as prescribed
by Ohio R.C. § 4503.182, or any comparable license plate, placard, or sticker
as prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by Ohio R.C. §
4505.07; or
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in Ohio R.C. § 4507.01.
(ORC § 2913.71) (1995 Code, § 131.20)
§ 131.21   INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(ORC § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC § 901.99(A)) (1995 Code, § 131.21)
§ 131.22   DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose
of causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
Ohio R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a
reasonable time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(ORC § 2935.041) (1995 Code, § 131.22)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see Ohio R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see Ohio R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23   INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS' COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive; or
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify Ohio R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including, but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under Ohio R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan
Underwriting Association created under Ohio R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring
corporation, and any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to
its employees or members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(ORC § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers' compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers' compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure
workers' compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers' Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau or
Workers' Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers' compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage; or
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers'
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers'
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers' compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers' Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under Ohio R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers' compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYER, EMPLOYEE, and SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers'
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers' compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers' compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS' COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(ORC § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, Ohio R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT OR REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(ORC § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property; or
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted; or
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(ORC § 2913.401)
§ 131.24   INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(ORC § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 1533.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 131.24)
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see Ohio R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25   MOTOR VEHICLE WITH CONCEALED IDENTITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly buy, sell, receive, dispose of, conceal, or
have in his or her possession any motor vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4501.01, from which the manufacturer's serial number or any distinguishing
number or identification mark has been removed, defaced, covered, or destroyed
for the purposes of concealing or destroying the identity of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of buying, receiving,
disposing, concealing, or having a motor vehicle with concealed identity, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(1995 Code, § 131.25)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.26   DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall cause, or create substantial risk of physical harm to
any property of the village:
      (1)   Knowingly, or by any means;
      (2)   Recklessly by means of flood, poison gas, poison, radioactive
material, caustic or corrosive material, or other inherently dangerous agency
or substance.
   (B)   No person shall throw, deposit, or place or cause to be thrown,
deposited, or placed any object or substance into or on any property of the
village in any manner than that for which the use of the property was intended.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of damaging village property,
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(1995 Code, § 131.26)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.27   EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY; EVIDENCE OF
LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         RENTER. A person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of
rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information; and
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee's agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(ORC § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §§
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.27 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person's resources.
(ORC § 2913.73)
§ 131.28   FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card; or
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging identification
cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or selling or
distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
forging identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification
cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in addition, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
(ORC § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see Ohio R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.29   CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess;
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape;
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or
fraudulently cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any
wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission
under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303; or
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2913.32)
§ 131.30   TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale;
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks;
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person's possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods;
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods; or
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, Ohio R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2933, or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section; or
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981,
if a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court's entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, Ohio R.C.
Chapter 1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition,
COUNTERFEIT MARK means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that
satisfies both of the following.
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67
for the same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is
attached, affixed, or otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses
that registered trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is
registered in a manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   COUNTERFEIT MARK does not include a mark or other designation
that is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or
services if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation
authorizes the manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to
attach, affix, or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection
with those goods or services at the time of their manufacture, production or
sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. The product of the lowest single unit sales price
charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender's possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. A trademark or service mark that is
registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark.”
      TRADEMARK and SERVICE MARK. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
1329.54
(ORC § 2913.34)
§ 131.31   RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes;
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number;
and
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(ORC § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 1349.99)
§ 131.32   PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2913.01, that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been
tampered with is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay
for the service rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is
in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the
tampering occurred has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft
offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2913.01, that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or
water meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by
the utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a
utility has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie
evidence that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or
attachment at the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit
or attachment with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(ORC § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by Ohio R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees
or receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(ORC § 4933.19)
§ 131.33   MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(ORC § 2913.07)
§ 131.34   DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or
control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2981.07)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Personating an officer
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Loud noises
   
132.14   Loud musical noises
   
132.15   Public intoxication
   
132.16   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.17   Curfew for minors
   
132.18   Acts in violation of the orders of the court
   
132.19   Default of payment of fine
   
132.20   Disposition of unclaimed cash bail bonds
   
132.21   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.22   Inciting to violence
   
132.23   Failure to appear
   
132.24   Loitering with the intention of committing unlawful drug transactions
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” symbol, see Ohio R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01   RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(ORC § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(ORC § 2917.031) (1995 Code, § 132.01)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence
creates the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious
public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other
public official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse.
No person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(ORC § 2917.04) (1995 Code, § 132.02)
§ 132.03   JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(ORC § 2917.05) (1995 Code, § 132.03)
§ 132.04   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender; or
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(2) of this section,
disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2133.21.
(ORC § 2917.11) (1995 Code, § 132.04)
§ 132.05   DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering; or
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 2917.12) (1995 Code, § 132.05)
§ 132.06   MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility; or
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2133.21.
(ORC § 2917.13) (1995 Code, § 132.06)
§ 132.07   TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person's control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following.
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates Ohio R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient's family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person's control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider's, officer's, employee's, or agent's provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider's, officer's,
employees, or agent's provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person's control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(ORC § 2917.21) (1995 Code, § 132.07)
§ 132.08   INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following.
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following.
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. ECONOMIC HARM as described in
this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or Ohio R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under Ohio
R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life; and
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device; and
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(ORC § 2917.31) (1995 Code, § 132.08)
§ 132.09   MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property; or
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section, ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION
have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2917.31.
(ORC § 2917.32) (1995 Code, § 132.09)
§ 132.10   PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2913.44) (1995 Code, § 132.10)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 132.11   UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   Generally. No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly
display on a motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an
organization of law enforcement officers.
   (B)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful
display of the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 2913.441)
   (C)   Possessing a law enforcement insignia.
      (1)   No person shall, without authority, make, sell, or have in his or
her possession any law enforcement officer's wreath, number, manual, badge,
button, belt, whistle, or other insignia of office.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (1) above is guilty of illegally
possessing a law enforcement officer's insignia and equipment, a minor
misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 132.11)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.12   IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who
serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under Ohio R.C.
§ 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under Ohio R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement
officer appointed under Ohio R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer
appointed under Ohio R.C. § 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a
port authority under Ohio R.C. § 4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or
employee of the state or any of its agencies, instrumentalities, or political
subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce
all or certain laws is imposed and the authority to arrest violators is
conferred, within limits of that statutory duty and authority; or a state
highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are to preserve the peace, to
protect life and property, and to enforce the laws, ordinances, or rules of the
state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2921.51) (1995 Code, § 132.12)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
132.10
§ 132.13   LOUD NOISES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated
any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum, horn, radio,
phonograph, or other sound-producing or sound-amplifying instrument so as to
emit loud and raucous noises or in any other way create noise or sound in such
a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of a neighborhood or as to interfere
with the transaction of business or other ordinary pursuits.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to affect the reasonable giving of
information for religious, educational, cultural, or political purposes or the
usual and reasonable operation of railways, airplanes, and motor vehicles or to
prohibit the reasonable use of automobile warning devices, the reasonable
ringing of church bells, the reasonable and ordinary noises attendant on
athletic contests, or lawful public or semipublic meetings, parades, or
celebrations or the right of free speech guaranteed to the citizens of the
United States.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making loud noises, a minor
misdemeanor, except that if the offender persists in the violation of this
section after reasonable warning or request to desist, he or she is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(1995 Code, § 132.13) (Ord. 95-O-10, passed 10-23-1995)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.14   LOUD MUSICAL NOISES.
   (A)   No person, association, firm, or corporation, operating a restaurant,
hotel, summer garden, or other place of refreshment or entertainment, shall
permit, nor shall any person in or about such restaurant, hotel, summer garden,
or other place of refreshment or entertainment to engage in playing or
rendition of music of any kind, singing, loud talking, amplification of sound,
or other noises on or about the premises, in such manner as to disturb the
peace and quiet of the neighborhood, having due regard for the proximity of
places of residence, hospitals, or other residential institutions and to any
conditions affected by such noises.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person, association, firm, or
corporation operating a restaurant, hotel, summer garden, or other place of
refreshment or entertainment to permit, or for any person in or about such
restaurant, hotel, summer garden, or other place of refreshment or
entertainment to engage in the playing or rendition of music of any kind,
singing, loud talking, amplification of sound, or other noises on or about the
premises during the night season after 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit shall state
the hour at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making loud musical noises,
a minor misdemeanor, except that if the offender persists in the violation of
this section after reasonable warning or request to desist, he or she is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(1995 Code, § 132.14) (Ord. 95-O-10, passed 10-23-1995)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.15   PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall be found in a public place in a state of voluntary
intoxication.
   (B)   When to an ordinary observer a person appears to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe such person is voluntarily intoxicated.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public intoxication, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(1995 Code, § 132.15)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.16   SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONCERT. A musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. A CONCERT
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that has
walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including, but not limited
to, a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. A LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE does not include any form of entertainment with
respect to which the person purchasing a ticket routinely participates in
amusements as well as views performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
Ohio R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public; or
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices; and
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
            2.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected to
attend the concert; and
            3.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the expected
crowd.
         If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption under
this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a form
prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants or
denies the exemption within five days after receipt of the application. The
sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by Ohio R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer
appointed pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the
following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
and
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21
shall designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and
staffed in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a
restricted entertainment area located on the campus of an educational
institution covered by Ohio R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the legislative authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(ORC § 2917.40)
§ 132.17   CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVE OR RIDE AIMLESSLY. To drive or to ride as a passenger in or upon
any public place by an unnecessarily circuitous route or to retrace the same
route.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business earned on for a
profit, or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is
invited.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
      OFFICIAL VILLAGE TIME. Eastern standard time.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment, whenever used on any
clause prescribing a penalty, the term "operator," as applied to associations
or partnerships, includes the members or partners thereof, and as applied to a
corporation, includes the officers thereof.
      PARENT. Any natural parent of a minor, a guardian or any adult person 21
years of age or over, responsible for the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground,
public building or vacant lot.
      REMAIN. To loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon.
   (B)   Curfew hours; prohibited conduct; exceptions.
      (1)   No minor shall remain in or upon any public place or any
establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, official city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall
be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No minor enrolled in a public school shall remain in or upon any
public place or establishment during the school hours of the minor's school.
      (3)   No minor shall drive or ride aimlessly in an automobile, a truck or
a motorcycle between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, official city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall
be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any minor
accompanied by a parent, or to a minor upon an errand or other legitimate
business directed by such minor's parent, or to any minor who is engaged in
lawful employment during the school/curfew hours or to a minor traveling from a
scheduled school activity or event during the curfew hours.
      (5)   Any school, church, lodge or other organization that desires to
hold any activity for minors under 18 years of age, and which activity shall
require such minors be out at a later hour than provided in this section, shall
make application to the Village Manager for permission to have the minors stay
out to a later hour. The application shall state the time the activity will
end, and the minors who attend such activity shall be required to be off the
streets and public places one hour after the activity is ended.
   (C)   Parents' responsibilities.
      (1)   No parent shall knowingly permit any minor to remain in or upon any
public place or any establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of the following day, official city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays
the hours shall be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any parent who
accompanies a minor, or to a parent who directs a minor upon an errand or other
legitimate business, or to any parent of a minor engaged in gainful lawful
employment during the curfew hours, or to any parent of a minor who shall
attend any activity in accordance with the provisions of Section
132.17(B)(5).
   (D)   Owners' and operators' responsibilities.
      (1)   No operator of an establishment or their agents or employees shall
knowingly permit any minor to remain upon the premises of such establishment
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official
city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any minor
accompanied by a parent or to a minor upon an errand or other legitimate
business directed by such minor's parent.
   (E)   Parental responsibilities.
      (1)   A parent who has parental rights and responsibilities for the care
of a minor and is the residential parent and legal custodian of such minor, a
guardian who has custody of such minor, or other custodian of such minor, is
charged with the control of the minor and shall have the power to exercise
parental control and authority over the minor.
         It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal custodian, legal guardian, or
other person lawfully charged with the care of a minor, to fail to supervise
such minor.
      (2)   Parental responsibility to supervise such minor and exercise
parental control with regard to such minor includes, but is not limited to, the
following duties:
         (a)   To keep illegal drugs out of the home and out of possession of
such minor, except those drugs duly prescribed by a licensed physician or other
authorized medical professional.
         (b)   To keep firearms out of the possession of such minor except
those used for hunting in accordance with state law and with knowledge and
supervision of a parent.
         (c)   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from maliciously or willfully damaging, defacing or
destroying real or personal property belonging to others, including real or
personal property of the Village of Lincoln Heights.
         (d)   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from engaging in theft of property or keeping in his or her
possession property known to be stolen.
         (e)   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from engaging in violent or assaultive behavior directed at
persons.
         An adjudication that a minor has been found a "delinquent child," as
defined in R.C. 2151.02 for criminal conduct other than that which would lead
to a "status" crime violation, such as a curfew or truancy violation, or has
been found guilty of a criminal conviction when said minor has been tried as an
adult shall be prima facie evidence that said parent or guardian failed to
supervise the minor.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to public childrens services agencies
as defined in R.C. 21 51.011, or to foster parents.
      (4)   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a minor under
subsection (A) of this section, it is an affirmative defense that the person:
         (a)   Is the victim of the act that brings the minor within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court; or
         (b)   Reported the act to the appropriate authorities; or
         (c)   Is charged with the parental control and authority over a minor
who is a "mentally retarded person" or a "developmentally disabled person" as
these terms are defined in R.C. 5321.01.
   (F)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Any police officer who finds a minor violating any provisions of §
132.17(B) shall obtain information from such minor as to his or her name and
address, age, and the name of his or her parents or parents. The minor shall
thereupon be instructed to proceed to his or her home forthwith. A written
notice shall then be mailed by the Chief of Police to the parent or parents of
the minor, advising of the violation of §
132.17(B).
      (2)   Any parent who shall violate any provision of §
132.17(C) after having received notice of a prior violation as provided in
Paragraph (1) hereof, shall be fined not more than $100, together with costs.
      (3)   Any operator of an establishment and any agents or employees of any
operator who shall violate the provisions of §
132.17(D) shall be fined nor more than $100, together with costs.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
132.17(E) is guilty of failing to supervise a minor. Upon first conviction, the
offender shall be subject to a fine of up to $250 and/or ordered to perform
community service. The fine and/or community service will be suspended if the
offender completes a parenting training class designated by the Village of
Lincoln Heights. In addition to any fine or order imposed pursuant to this
section the Court may order the offender to make restitution to any victim of
the minor's conduct. The amount of restitution shall not exceed the statutory
liability for parents established in R.C. 3109.09 and R.C. 3109.10.
      (5)   Each violation of any provision of this Section shall constitute a
separate offense.
         For a conviction of a second offense and/or additional offenses, the
offender shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 and/or ordered to perform
community service for each offense.
(1995 Code, § 132.17) (Ord. 84-O-14, passed 8-13-1984; Am. Ord. 88-O-17, passed
6-8-1988; Am. Ord. 96-O-20, passed 8-12-1996; Am. Ord. 97-O-26, passed 7-14-
1997)
§ 132.18   ACTS IN VIOLATION OF THE ORDERS OF THE COURT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Disobey or resist a lawful writ, process or order, rule, judgment or
command of the court or an officer of the court;
   (B)   Fail to obey subpoena duly served or refuse to answer as a witness
when lawfully required;
   (C)   Fail as witness or defendant to comply with the terms of a
recognizance granted to them by the court; or
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(1995 Code, § 132.18) (Ord. 95-O-04, passed 3-27-1995) Penalty, §
130.99
§ 132.19   DEFAULT OF PAYMENT OF FINE.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any ordinances of the municipality
who fails to pay the fine and costs of court as imposed by the Mayor shall be
confined to a suitable place imprisonment until such time as he or she has
remained in confinement a sufficient length of time, receiving credit at the
rate of $25 per day, to have paid the fine and costs in full, unless such fine
and costs are suspended.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the Mayor, in
his or her discretion and with the consent of the convicted person, may allow
the convicted person to perform labor in the service of the municipality and
within the municipality limits, with credit being given against such fine and
costs at the rate of $4.25 or minimum wage per hour.
   (C)   No such convicted person so employed under the provisions of division
(B) above, shall be required to work more than eight hours per day, nor does
such work need to be performed on consecutive days.
   (D)   The Mayor, at his or her discretion, may give any person who is
sentenced to three days or more, and who performs labor in lieu of
incarceration, the option to substitute a payment of $25 per day for up to 1/
3 of the sentence, provided the first two-thirds of the sentence is served with
good behavior, and provided the time off does not reduce any sentence requiring
a minimum number of days to less than the minimum.
(1995 Code, § 132.19) (Ord. 95-O-04, passed 3-27-1995)
§ 132.20   DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED CASH BAIL BONDS.
   (A)   The Village Manager is hereby authorized to establish a provision for
unclaimed cash bail bonds in the general fund in a manner approved by the State
Auditor.
   (B)   If a defendant or the person entitled to the unclaimed cash bail bond
fails to claim or recover the cash bail bond within five years after the
completion of the criminal process for which it was posted, then such cash bail
bond is forfeited to the village, provided, however, such forfeiture shall not
become final until notice of the unclaimed cash bail bond has been published in
a newspaper of general circulation within the village once a week for two
consecutive weeks.
(1995 Code, § 132.20) (Ord. 95-O-5, passed 3-27-1995)
§ 132.21   MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13,
a regional transit authority operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 306.30
through 306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with
Ohio R.C. §§ 306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the county and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the county.
(ORC § 2917.41)
§ 132.22   INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2917.01)
§ 132.23   FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to fail to appear on the scheduled
date and time the person has been cited to Mayor's Court for an initial
appearance, a continuance, trial, or any other purpose. Each failure to appear
shall constitute a separable offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2002-O-18, passed 3-11-2002)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.24   LOITERING WITH THE INTENTION OF COMMITTING UNLAWFUL DRUG
TRANSACTIONS.
   A.   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as that term has in Ohio R.C.
§ 3719.01(C).
      LOITER. To sit, stand, pace or otherwise remain within 200 feet of the
location first observed within one hour.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any area of property, either publicly owned or to which the
public has access. The term shall specifically include, but not be limited to,
a street, sidewalk, alley, park, playground, parking lot or garage, the doorway
or entrance to any building that fronts such a location, and a motor vehicle
that is parked or idling in such a location.
      UNLAWFUL DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY. Conduct which constitutes an offense
defined in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925; conduct which constitutes complicity to
commit such an offense by, for example, acting as a lookout; or conduct which
constitutes conspiracy to commit such an offense.
   (B)   Offense. It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in a public
place with the intention of engaging in unlawful drug-related activity.
   (C)   Police officer observation. A police officer who observes a person
loitering under circumstances which provide the officer with a reasonable basis
to believe that the person intends to engage in unlawful drug-related activity
may detain the individual for the purpose of investigating whether the person
is in violation of division (B).
   (D)   Police officer may not detain. A police officer may not detain an
individual under division (C) unless both of the following elements are
satisfied.
      (1)   The person engages in one or more of the following behaviors:
         (a)   The person passes or receives from passers-by, bystanders or
person in motor vehicles money, objects having characteristics consistent with
controlled substances, and/or an envelope, bag or other container which could
reasonably contain such objects or money;
         (b)   The person conceals or attempts to conceal an object having
characteristics consistent with controlled substances and/or an envelope, bag
or other container which could reasonably contain such objects;
         (c)   The person flees or obscures himself or herself upon seeing law
enforcement officers;
         (d)   The person communicates the fact that law enforcement officers
are in the vicinity to another person in a manner which suggests that the
communication is a warning; and/or
         (e)   The officer observes the person in possession of any instrument
or object which is customarily used in the sale, administration or use of
controlled substances.
      (2)   One of the following factors applies:
         (a)   The officer is aware that, within the preceding three years, the
person has been convicted or found delinquent of an offense defined in Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2925, of complicity to commit such an offense, or of conspiracy to
commit such an offense within the preceding three years;
         (b)   The officer has knowledge of a specific tip concerning unlawful
drug-related activity at a specific location, and the person who is loitering
is doing so at a time, in a place or in a manner that is otherwise reasonably
similar to the details provided in the tip;
         (c)   The person is loitering in an area that is known by the officer
to have a reputation for unlawful drug-related activity;
         (d)   The person is in an area where he or she is prohibited by court
order from being, and the officer is aware of the court order;
         (e)   The officer knows that the person has previously been convicted
under this section, or other similar state or municipal provision; or
         (f)   Any vehicle the person has approached or communicated with is
registered to an individual who has been convicted of an unlawful drug-related
activity in the previous three years, and the officer is aware of that fact.
   (E)   Opportunity for explanation. Upon detaining a person pursuant to
division (C), a police officer must afford the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct or otherwise to dispel the officer's suspicion. No person
shall be convicted upon trial if it appears that the officer failed to do so,
and no person shall be convicted upon trial if it appears that the explanation
he or she provided the office at the scene is true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (F)   Procedure. If a police officer who detains a person pursuant to
division (C) develops probable cause to believe that the person is in violation
of division (B), the officer shall order the person to immediately leave the
location and to remain at least 500 feet away from the location for five hours.
In the event that the person refuses to comply with such an order, the police
officer may arrest the person and charge him or her with a violation of this
section.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of loitering with the
intention of engaging in unlawful drug-related activity, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (2)   If any offender has previously been convicted under this section,
violation of this section is a second degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2003-O-43, passed 9-22-2003)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims; restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see Ohio R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest in sex of juveniles.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(ORC § 2907.01) (1995 Code, § 133.01)
§ 133.02   UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former Ohio R.C. § 2907.12,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2907.04) (1995 Code, § 133.02)
§ 133.03   SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person's, or one of the other
person's ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender's or
touching person's conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender has been convicted previously
of a violation of this section, Ohio R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05,
2907.06, former Ohio R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 2907.06) (1995 Code, § 133.03)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is a minor, who is not the spouse of the offender, and who resides
in the person’s household:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2907.09)
   (D)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(ORC § 3781.55) (1995 Code, § 133.06)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05   VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2907.08) (1995 Code, § 133.05)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(ORC § 2907.10)
§ 133.07   PROCURING.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel; or
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of procuring. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized, or otherwise involved in
a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years of age at the
time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates division
(A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who
engages in sexual activity for hire in premises used in violation of division
(B) of this section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation,
regardless of whether the offender who violates division (B) of this section
knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2907.23) (1995 Code, § 133.07)
§ 133.08   SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall solicit another who is 18 years of age or older
to engage with the other person in sexual activity for hire.
      (2)   No person shall solicit another to engage with such other person in
sexual activity for hire if the other person is 16 or 17 years of age and the
offender knows that the other person is 16 or 17 years of age or is reckless in
that regard.
      (3)   No person shall solicit another to engage with such other person in
sexual activity for hire if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The other person is less than 16 years of age, whether or not
the offender knows the age of the other person.
         (b)   The other person is a person with a developmental disability and
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe the other person is a
person with a developmental disability.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree. A violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section or an attempt to commit a violation of division
(A) of this section and if the person, in committing or attempting to commit
the violation, was in, was on, or used a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation, may impose
upon the offender a class six suspension of the person’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio
R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). In lieu of imposing upon the offender the class six
suspension, the court instead may require the offender to perform community
service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section:
      PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2905.32.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. Means an implicit or explicit agreement to
provide sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person
engaging in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to
any person associated with either such person.
(ORC § 2907.24(A), (C)(1), (D), (E))
   (D)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger; or
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (E)   As used in division (D) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility;
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition; or
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of loitering
to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 2907.241) (1995 Code, § 133.08)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see Ohio R.C.
§§ 2907.24(B) and 2907.241(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09   PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of prostitution, a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(ORC § 2907.25) (1995 Code, § 133.09)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see Ohio R.C.
§ 2907.25(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10   DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following.
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene.
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile;
or
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §§
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §§
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §§
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §§
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(ORC § 2907.35) (1995 Code, § 133.10)
§ 133.11   DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower 2/3 of the material, if the material in
question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the material in
question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that is harmful to
juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(ORC § 2907.311) (1995 Code, § 133.101)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12   DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married; or
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain
matter harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (2)   A juvenile who violates division (B) of this section shall be
adjudged an unruly child, with the disposition of the case as may be
appropriate under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2151.
(ORC § 2907.33) (1995 Code, § 133.12)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13   RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in Ohio R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony
by a husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and
the accused's spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of
the following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender's premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire; or
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(ORC § 2907.26)
§ 133.14   DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2721, involving
the same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory
judgment action to determine whether particular materials or performances are
obscene or harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that Ohio R.C. § 2907.31 or Ohio R.C. § 2907.32, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing
from the chief legal officer stating that particular materials or performances
are obscene or harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party's request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case; or
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2907.31 or Ohio R.C. §
2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a
judicial determination of the character of the material or performance involved
in the violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(ORC § 2907.36)
§ 133.15   INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that Ohio R.C. § 2907.31 or Ohio R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of Ohio R.C. §
2907.31 or Ohio R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, constitute a nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3767.
(ORC § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16   UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(ORC § 2907.38)
§ 133.17   JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club,
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means an adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under Ohio R.C. §§ 4507.50
and 4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under Ohio R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted
to submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(ORC § 2907.39)
§ 133.18   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to,
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including, but not
limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303
may remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see Ohio R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.99   SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in Ohio
R.C. § 2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s
sentence a statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender, shall comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. § 2950.03, and shall
require the offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant
to Ohio R.C. § 2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under Ohio R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under Ohio R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified
in that section or, if required under Ohio R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge
shall perform the duties specified in that division.
(ORC § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see Ohio R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see Ohio R.C.
§ 2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see Ohio R.C.
§ 2915.082
§ 134.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Means either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and preannounced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant; or
      (2)   Instant bingo, punch boards, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and seal cards;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and seal cards for not
more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the period
described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; and devices for selecting or displaying the combination of
bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets. Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are
not gambling devices if sold or otherwise provided, and used, in accordance
with this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915. For purposes of this chapter,
BINGO SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2915.08 and
the proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3) and is
a charitable organization as defined in this section. A CHARITABLE INSTANT
BINGO ORGANIZATION does not include a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3)
and that is created by a veteran's organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran's
organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.   
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is and has received from the Internal
Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in effect, stating
that the organization is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a)
and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or otherwise transferred to, any of
the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or
509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran's organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in Ohio R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding
scholarships to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division
of the Ohio Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for
nonprofit youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that
are donated to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit
organizations, promotion of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170; or
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter's organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter's
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL OF INSTANT BINGO TICKETS. A single game of instant bingo tickets all
with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state; or
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following.
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
currency, token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under Ohio R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in Ohio R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization's
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen; and
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under Ohio
R.C. § 2915.08(B)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes; or
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2915.02, 2915.03, 2915.04, 2915.05,
2915.06, 2915.07, 2915.08, 2915.081, 2915.082, 2915.09, 2915.091, 2915.092,
2915.10, or 2915.11;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition or a violation of Ohio R.C. §
2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element; or
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard that accompanies each deal of instant bingo
tickets and that has printed on or affixed to it the following information for
the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer's name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning instant bingo
tickets by denomination and the respective winning symbol or number
combinations for the winning instant bingo tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play; and
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Means gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo;
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage; and
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. In all “instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be
predetermined. The term does not include any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains as
one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency;
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions;
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise;
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations;
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels;
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator;
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses; or
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, bingo, or instant
bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Means gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO. Means gross
profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable expense expended for the
purchase of instant bingo supplies, and, in the case of instant bingo conducted
by a veteran’s, fraternal, or sporting organization, minus the payment by that
organization of real property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on
which instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or
any other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A board containing a number of holes or receptacles of uniform
size in which are placed, mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of
paper that may be punched or drawn from the hole or receptacle when used in
conjunction with instant bingo. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips
of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the
game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under Ohio R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.   
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a sheriff, deputy
sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer's training course pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79
and who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is
conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the players score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Means either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain, the
outcome of which is determined largely or wholly by chance; or
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   SLOT MACHINE does not include a skill-based amusement machine or an
instant bingo ticket dispenser.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been
in continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under Ohio R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a
charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in § 134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN'S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran's association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran's association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran's association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran's association or has received a letter from the national
veteran's association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran's association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN'S ASSOCIATION means any veteran's association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER'S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in Ohio R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following.
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used at least 100 days per year for
athletic activities by one or more organizations, not organized for profit,
each of which is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial
support to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 18 years of
age or younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing
to the support of an athletic team, club, league, or association; and
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(ORC § 2915.01) (1995 Code, § 134.01)
§ 134.02   PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following.
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply.
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran's or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran's or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran's
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises twelve times during
the preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable organization leases premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable
organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the
festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable
organization may pay under Ohio R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable
organization to conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 1531.01,
operated under a permit issued under Ohio R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under Ohio R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
q      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (1995 Code, § 134.02)
§ 134.03   OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of Ohio R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC § 2915.03) (1995 Code, § 134.03)
§ 134.04   PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC § 2915.04) (1995 Code, § 134.04)
§ 134.05   CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following.
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following.
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2915.05) (1995 Code, § 134.05)
§ 134.06   REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts
so spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may
deduct from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum
equal to the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo
described in that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo, other than instant bingo, for a charitable purpose listed
in its license application and described in the definition for “charitable
purpose” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01, or distribute all of the net profit from the
proceeds of the sale of instant bingo as stated in its license application and
in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 2915.101.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to
do any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
the purpose of conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not
a charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or
otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per
calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall
more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar
week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter's organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
Ohio R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2915.08(F). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under Ohio R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio
R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may
include a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited
by the Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played
during each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at the site of instant bingo other than at a
bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran's organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization's members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2915.09) (1995 Code, § 134.06)
§ 134.07   RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address, and social security number of
all persons who are winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01(V), Ohio R.C. § 2915.02(D), or Ohio
R.C. § 2915.101, a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each
expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under Ohio R.C. § 2915.01(T); and
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01 shall be
deposited into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or
game. Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session
or game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the
bingo session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers
drawn on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and
reporting to ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are
properly accounted for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies; and
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers; and
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member, or employee of the organization;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the organization;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted; and
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915 has
occurred and to determine whether Ohio R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization has violated any provision of this chapter or Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2915, the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the
proper court to enforce this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that
the law enforcement agency shall give written notice to the Attorney General
when commencing an action as described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been requested
for examination, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with any inspection, audit,
or observation of bingo or a game of chance or premises where bingo or a game
of chance is conducted, or refuse to comply with any reasonable request of, or
obstruct, impede, or interfere with any other reasonable action undertaken by,
the Attorney General or a law enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of
this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2915.10) (1995 Code, § 134.07)
§ 134.08   REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2915.11) (1995 Code, § 134.08)
§ 134.09   BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; or
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in Ohio R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and non-monetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
Ohio R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(ORC § 2915.12) (1995 Code, § 134.09)
§ 134.10   PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1),
(A)(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2915.08, and is in compliance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran's
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under Ohio
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected
on an invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information
required by Ohio R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt
rules in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of
instant bingo by charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2915.091)
§ 134.11   RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a charitable
organization, a public school, a chartered nonpublic school, a community
school, or a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
is described in IRC 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the organization or school
and does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle
drawing that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a charitable organization that is described in division (A)(1)
of this section, but that is not also described in IRC 501(c)(3), conducts a
raffle, the charitable organization shall distribute at least 50% of the net
profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in Ohio R.C. § 2915.01
(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any
political subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ORC § 2915.092)
§ 134.12   INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, the charitable instant bingo organization
shall enter into a written contract with the owner or lessor of the location at
which the instant bingo is conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in
the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each
location where the instant bingo other than at a bingo session is being
conducted, and identify the owner or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session is not required to enter into a written contract
with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted provided that the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of
the instant bingo other than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct
of the instant bingo other than at a bingo session at that location is not more
than five days per calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter's organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(ORC § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   A veteran's organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to Ohio
R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to 12 hours during any day,
provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00 a.m. and ends not
later than 2:00 a.m.;
         (b)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to its own premises and to its
own members and invited guests; and
         (c)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of
this section is raising money for another organization that is described in IRC
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c), and that is in good standing in this state, the veteran's organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization shall execute a written
contract with the organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its
principal place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income
taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good
standing in this state in order to conduct instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division
(G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor permit under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4303, that permit may be subject to suspension, revocation, or cancellation if
the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization
violates a provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo to the organization with which the veteran's organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization has entered into a written
contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ORC § 2915.13)
§ 134.13   RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in Ohio R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant
bingo organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a
bingo session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other
person in violating any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner's or
lessor's premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(ORC § 2915.094)
§ 134.14   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2915.06)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Criminal child enticement
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Prowling
   
135.20   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.21   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.22   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.23   Adulteration of food
   
135.24   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.25   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.26   Spreading contagion
   
135.27   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see Ohio R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01   DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER'S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON'S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER'S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms ANOTHER'S UNBORN, OTHER PERSON'S UNBORN and UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF ANOTHER'S PREGNANCY that are set forth in division (A) of this
section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate Ohio R.C. § 2919.12,
2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; or
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(ORC § 2903.09)
§ 135.02   NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another's pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2903.05) (1995 Code, § 135.01)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03   VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of Ohio
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of Ohio R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of Ohio R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in Ohio R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or
of a municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for
the violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in Ohio R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any
other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under Ohio R.C. § 4507.10 or
if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or
assault offense. The court shall impose a mandatory jail term on the offender
when required by division (C) of this section.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, a
class three suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(3), or,
if the offender previously had been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class
two suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege as specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under Ohio R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section, any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class
four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory prison term on an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of this section, as
provided in Ohio R.C. § 2903.06(E). The court shall impose a mandatory jail
term of at least 15 days on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to
a misdemeanor violation of division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose
upon the offender a longer jail term as authorized pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in Ohio R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under Ohio R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the
type described in Ohio R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in
accordance with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or
affect the application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of
this section in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who
violates any of those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.20
or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to Ohio R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.21 or a
municipal ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation
of Ohio R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23,
2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER OFFENSE
means a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.01 or Ohio R.C. § 2903.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit
the violation, a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in
which the deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor
vehicle, or an attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of
Ohio R.C. § 2923.02 in circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle
as the means to attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(ORC § 2903.06) (1995 Code, § 135.02)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver's license, see Ohio R.C. § 4510.05
§ 135.04   ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another's unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another's unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in Ohio R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
Ohio R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(ORC § 2903.13) (1995 Code, § 135.03)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to
another or to another's unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 2903.14) (1995 Code, § 135.04)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see Ohio R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.05   INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(ORC § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(ORC § 1533.99(C)) (1995 Code, § 135.041)
Statutory Reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see Ohio R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06   MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(ORC § 2903.22) (1995 Code, § 135.06)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person's unborn, or a member of such other person's
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(ORC § 2903.21) (1995 Code, § 135.05)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of Ohio R.C. §
2911.211, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these
offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender's person or under the offender's control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under Ohio R.C. § 2903.213 or Ohio
R.C. § 2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under
the order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   Ohio R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged
with a violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM, and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.  § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2909.04.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2133.21.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity; or
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related
in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or belonging
to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions or
incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official's,
firefighter's, rescuer's, emergency medical services person's, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise  communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2971.01.
         THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (C)(1)
(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim
of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person
provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of remotely
transferring information not under that person’s control, including having
provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or connection to
or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the information, and
that do not include the creation of the content of the material that is the
subject of the access or connection. In addition, any person providing access
or connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring
information not under that person’s control shall not be liable for any action
voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or transmission through
its service of any information that it believes is or will be sent in violation
of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(ORC § 2903.211) (1995 Code, §§ 135.061, 135.062)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.22
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07   UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. § 2971.01
(ORC § 2905.03) (1995 Code, § 135.07)
§ 135.08   CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT.
   (A)   No person, by any means and without privilege to do so, shall
knowingly solicit, coax, entice, or lure any child under 14 years of age to
accompany the person in any manner, including entering into any vehicle or onto
any vessel, whether or not the offender knows the age of the child, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The actor does not have the express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian, or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity; and
      (2)   The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter, or
other person who regularly provides emergency services, and is not an employee
or agent of, or a volunteer acting under the direction of, any board of
education, or the actor is any such person, but at the time the actor
undertakes the activity, the actor is not acting within the scope of the
actor's lawful duties in that capacity.
   (B)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A) of
this section.
   (C)   No person, for any unlawful purpose other than, or in addition to,
that proscribed by division (A) of this section, shall engage in any activity
described in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A) of this
section that the actor undertook the activity in response to a bona fide
emergency situation or that the actor undertook the activity in a reasonable
belief that it was necessary to preserve the health, safety, or welfare of the
child.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
criminal child enticement, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of this section, a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, Ohio R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03, or
former Ohio R.C. § 2907.12, or Ohio R.C. § 2905.01 or 2907.05 when the victim
of that prior offense was under 17 years of age at the time of the offense,
criminal child enticement is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2971.01.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01.
      VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 1546.01.
(ORC § 2905.05) (1995 Code, § 135.08)
§ 135.09   COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following.
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor's conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose
was limited to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct;
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice;
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified; or
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section, THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat
by innuendo.
(ORC § 2905.12) (1995 Code, § 135.09)
§ 135.10   BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor's spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(ORC § 2919.01) (1995 Code, § 135.10)
§ 135.11   UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABORTION. The purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any person,
including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to produce a
live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(ORC § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. A woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age who has
not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become employed
and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the care and
control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician
has received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with Ohio R.C. §
2919.121(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in Ohio R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(ORC §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or Ohio R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(ORC § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(ORC § 2919.18) (1995 Code, § 135.11)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see Ohio R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see Ohio R.C. §
2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see Ohio R.C. § 2919.12
(B)
§ 135.12   ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
Ohio R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2919.14) (1995 Code, § 135.12)
§ 135.13   NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21; or
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   No person shall abandon or fail to provide support as established by
court order to another person whom, by court order or decree, the person is
legally obligated to support.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in Ohio R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2151.23,
2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31,
3115.401, or former Ohio R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other
sentence imposed, shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge
against the person and require the person to pay any reasonable attorney's fees
of any adverse party other than the state, as determined by the court, that
arose in relation to the charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(ORC § 2919.21) (1995 Code, § 135.13)
§ 135.14   ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child;
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child;
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child;
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child's mental health or development;
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter; or
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that
the act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted
of the violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the
violation of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by Ohio R.C. §
4511.01, within the municipality and in violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of Ohio R.C. §§ 4511.191 through
4511.197 and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation
of this division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle
while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them
or for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE, and SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows.
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, Ohio R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former Ohio R.C. § 2903.07
as it existed prior to March 23, 2000, or Ohio R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in
which the offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of
that section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any
other provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the
basis of the charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the
offender also shall be sentenced in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating Ohio R.C. §
4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the
basis of the charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the
following apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of
Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of
guilty to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute,
for the purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a
plea of guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
(ORC § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H)) (1995 Code, § 135.14)
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see Ohio R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see Ohio R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15   INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children; or
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child's health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(ORC § 2919.23) (1995 Code, § 135.15)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person's initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3115, or under Ohio R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33,
2151.36, 2151.361, 2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13,
3113.04, 3113.07, or 3113.31.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering
with an action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state
law or municipal ordinance, or Ohio R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action
to issue or modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2919.231) (1995 Code, § 135.151)
§ 135.16   DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in division (D)(2) to (D)
(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07,
2911.12, 2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or
household member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United
States that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim
of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission
of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a
family or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a
violation of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. A violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(ORC § 2919.25) (1995 Code, § 135.16)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.22
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see Ohio R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see Ohio R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17   HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, HAZING means doing any act or coercing
another, including the victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or
other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental
or physical harm to any person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, or faculty member of any primary,
secondary, or post secondary school or of any other educational institution,
public or private, shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of hazing, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(ORC § 2903.31) (1995 Code, § 135.17)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see Ohio R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18   CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under Ohio R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a
new residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under Ohio R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(ORC § 2919.24) (1995 Code, § 135.18)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see Ohio R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19   PROWLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PLACE. Places privately owned but open to the public generally,
such as shopping centers, retail stores, transportation terminals, movie
theaters, office buildings, and restaurants, as well as all distinctly private
places such as homes, private residences, and apartment houses.
      PROWLING. Lingering, lurking, or standing idly around.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Public streets and alleyways, public restrooms, public
sidewalks, public parking lots and garages, public parks, public squares,
public plazas, public recreational facilities, public buildings, and municipal
airports.
      SURROUNDING AREA. That area easily and immediately accessible to the
person under observation.
   (B)   No person shall prowl in any public or private place at a time, in a
manner or under circumstances which warrant a reasonable man to believe that
the safety of persons or security of property in the surrounding area is
threatened.
   (C)   The following circumstances may be considered in determining whether a
reasonable man would believe that the safety of persons or security of property
in the surrounding area is threatened.
      (1)   The flight of a person on the appearance of a police officer.
      (2)   Attempted self-concealment by a person on the appearance of a
police officer.
      (3)   The checking by a person other than the owner, tenant, or agent of
the owner or tenant, of doors, windows, or other means of access to buildings,
houses, or vehicles.
   (D)   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a police officer shall prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any belief of threat to
the safety of persons or security of property, by requesting him or her to
identify himself or herself and explain his or her presence and conduct. No
person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the police
officer did not comply with the preceding sentence.
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of prowling,
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(1995 Code, § 135.19)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.20   FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health of safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to
the functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health of safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally
impaired person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender's
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender's
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. Means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
CARETAKER does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who
is an agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(ORC § 2903.10)
§ 135.21   PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUSE. Knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing serious
physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to Ohio R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 3701.01,
that provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Knowingly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. The use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute for
treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(ORC § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following.
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor's conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or defect of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2903.34.
(ORC § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see Ohio R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.22   VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 2919.26 or Ohio R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213
or 2903.214; or
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or
3113.31, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of Ohio R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211,
2903.22, or 2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person
who is the subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under Ohio R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2743.191. The
total amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to Ohio R.C. §
2743.191 for electronic monitoring under Ohio R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and
2919.27 shall not exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(ORC § 2919.27)
§ 135.23   ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(ORC § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see Ohio R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.24   ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION . A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 18 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
cigarette or any other product or device that consists of or contains nicotine
that can be ingested into the body by any means, including, but not limited to,
chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE .
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, any electronic
product or device that produces a vapor that delivers nicotine or any other
substance to the person inhaling from the device to simulate smoking and that
is likely to be offered to or purchased by consumers as an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic pipe.
            2.   The phrase does not include any item, product, or device
described in division 2. of the definition for “alternative nicotine product”
in this section.
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made from tobacco,
including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, or snuff.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any child;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that
giving, selling, or otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person
under 18 years of age is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any child with purpose to obtain cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes for that child;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which children are not generally permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The child was accompanied by a parent, spouse who is 18 years of
age or older, or legal guardian of the child.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a child under division (A)(2)(a) of this section is a parent,
spouse who is 18 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the child.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a child cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes while the child is participating in a research protocol if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the child has
consented in writing to the child participating in the research protocol.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The child is participating in the research protocol at the
facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)
(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, permitting
children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, permitting children
to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a child in violation of this section and that are used,
possessed, purchased, or received by a child in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are
subject to seizure and forfeiture as contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(ORC § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under Ohio
R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(ORC § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under Ohio R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(ORC § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes.”
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(ORC § 2927.023)
§ 135.25   NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility;
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly; and
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
Ohio R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 3791.031)
§ 135.26   SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(ORC § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(ORC § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see Ohio R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see Ohio R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.27 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under Ohio R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or Ohio R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to
determine the alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in Ohio
R.C. § 4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the
presence of any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in Ohio R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facility
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Giving false alarm or information
   
136.17   Assault on a fireman or law enforcement officer
   
136.18   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.19   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.20   Using sham legal process
   
136.21   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.22   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.23   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see Ohio R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY, and POLITICAL PARTY. Have the
same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of Ohio R.C. §
2945.37, 2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement
in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those
natures; detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this
division, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures
that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in
the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee
of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
Ohio R.C. § 311.29(E) or Ohio R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a
county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 5147.30, DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and
going to and from the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT and MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. Have the same meanings as
in Ohio R.C. § 2913.40.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under Ohio R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.  
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official;
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant; or
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under Ohio R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(ORC § 2921.01) (1995 Code, § 136.01)
§ 136.02   FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies.
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in Ohio R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the
furnishing to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification
card, or any other document that contains false information about the
purchaser's identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under Ohio R.C. § 5743.71 in connection
with the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery
sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver's or commercial driver's license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser's identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13), or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under Ohio R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce
any document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless
communications device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to
mislead a peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of
financial responsibility made in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 4509.102) (1995 Code, § 136.02)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see Ohio R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03   COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of Ohio R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim; and
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2921.21) (1995 Code, § 136.03)
§ 136.04   FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2913.04(B) has
been or is being committed or that the person has received information derived
from such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air; or
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient
privilege or advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be
a ground for excluding any information regarding the report containing the
knowledge or belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the
information may be admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of
Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies.
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor's
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under Ohio R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
Ohio R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration
in violation of former Ohio R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division,
COUNSELING SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting by a
person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(ORC § 2921.22) (1995 Code, § 136.04)
§ 136.05   FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC § 2921.23) (1995 Code, § 136.05)
§ 136.06   OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official's official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official's lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2921.31) (1995 Code, § 136.06)
§ 136.07   OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following.
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT and CHILD. Have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2152.02.
(ORC § 2921.32) (1995 Code, § 136.07)
§ 136.08   RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 2923.11.
(ORC § 2921.33) (1995 Code, § 136.08)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09   HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law
director appointed under Ohio R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(ORC § 2921.42)
(ORC § 2921.42) (1995 Code, § 136.09)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
Ohio R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10   SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by Ohio R.C. § 102.03(G),
(H), (I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant's official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant's public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant's
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant's
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant's official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant's own personal or business
use and no person for the person's own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following.
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following.
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(ORC § 2921.43) (1995 Code, § 136.10)
§ 136.11   DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay; or
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape; or
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the legislative
authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3326;
or fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of
duty is disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of
trust in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry
of the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment
or restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in Ohio R.C. §
9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-
preparatory boarding school established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3328.
(ORC § 2921.44) (1995 Code, § 136.11)
§ 136.12   INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of his or her office, employment, or
authority, shall knowingly deprive, conspire or attempt to deprive any person
of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2921.45) (1995 Code, § 136.12)
§ 136.13   ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4301.01.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(ORC § 2921.37) (1995 Code, § 136.13)
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see Ohio
R.C. § 2923.131
§ 136.14   FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under Ohio R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an
act or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in
Ohio R.C. § 2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in Ohio R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2921.14) (1995 Code, § 136.14)
§ 136.15   ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted; or
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse; or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted; or
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog; or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of
the Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog; and
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG, BLIND and MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Have the same meaning
as in Ohio R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(ORC § 2921.321) (1995 Code, § 136.15)
§ 136.16   GIVING FALSE ALARM OR INFORMATION.
   (A) No person shall knowingly give or assist in giving a false or fictitious
call or report to the Police Department, Fire Department, or other law
enforcement officer, or to any person dispatching or operating an ambulance or
other emergency vehicle with intent to mislead, misdirect, or improperly summon
any officer or person.
   (B) No person shall knowingly give a false or fictitious call or report to
school officials or other persons in charge of locations where groups of
persons assemble when the nature of such false or fictitious call or report
results in law enforcement action.
(Am. Ord. 84-O-31, passed 12-19-1984)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
(1995 Code, § 136.16) (Am. Ord. 84-O-35, passed 12-19-1984)
§ 136.17   ASSAULT ON A FIREMAN OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to,
and no person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to:
      (1)   A member of the fire division while such member is engaged in the
performance of his or her duties; or
      (2)   A law enforcement officer while that officer is engaged in the
performance of his or her duties or engaged in the performance of law
enforcement duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of assault on a fireman or law
enforcement officer, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(1995 Code, § 136.17)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.18   DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE and YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE have the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. § 149.43.
(ORC § 2921.25)
§ 136.19   INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following.
      (1)   A section of the Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(ORC § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.20   USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Municipal corporations, townships, counties,
school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are organized
under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only in
geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions.
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body;
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property; or
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. A state of the United States, including without limitation the
state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. STATE does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see Ohio R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.21   MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. § 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC § 2921.15)
§ 136.22   MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(ORC § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person
knows that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under Ohio R.C. Chapter
128, except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee; or
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(ORC § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(ORC § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.23   FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense; or
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section; or
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(ORC § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(ORC § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: (RESERVED)
 
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Loitering in drug-free zone
   
138.15   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.16   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.17   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.18   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.19   Pseudoephedrine sales
   
138.20   Medical marijuana cultivators, processors, and retail dispensary
establishments prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see Ohio R.C § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see Ohio R.C. §§ 2925.41 et seq.
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see Ohio R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see Ohio R.C. §
4510.07
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. The direct application of a drug, whether by injection,
inhalation, ingestion, or any other means to a person or an animal.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in Ohio R.C. §
3715.63.
   BENZODIAZEPINE. A controlled substance that has United States Food and Drug
Administration approved labeling indicating that it is a benzodiazepine,
benzodiazepine derivative, triazolobenzodiazepine, or triazolobenzodiazepine
derivative, including the following drugs and their varying salt forms or
chemical congeners: alprazolam, chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride, clobazam,
clonazepam, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam hydrochloride,
lorazepam, midazolam, oxazepam, quazepam, temazepam, and triazolam.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II or Schedule III, with the exception of controlled
substance analogs, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, and hashish and except
as provided in division (2) or (5) of this definition, whichever of the
following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding 5 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding 3 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance.
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
       (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine;
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine; or
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A JUVENILE if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of a
juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A SCHOOL if the offender commits the offense on school premises, in
a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V of Ohio R.C. § 3719.41.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG.
      (1)   The phrase means, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition, a substance to which both of the following apply:
         (a)   The chemical structure of the substance is substantially similar
to the structure of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
         (b)   One of the following applies regarding the substance:
            1.   The substance has a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or
greater than the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central
nervous system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
            2.   With respect to a particular person, that person represents or
intends the substance to have a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect
on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or greater than
the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous
system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following:
         (a)   A controlled substance;
         (b)   Any substance for which there is an approved new drug
application;
         (c)   With respect to a particular person, any substance if an
exemption is in effect for investigational use for that person pursuant to
federal law to the extent that conduct with respect to that substance is
pursuant to that exemption;
         (d)   Any substance to the extent it is not intended for human
consumption before the exemption described in division (2)(c) of this
definition takes effect with respect to that substance.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 2925.03 or R.C. § 2925.11, a
controlled substance analog, to the extent intended for human consumption,
shall be treated for purposes of any provision of this Code or the Ohio Revised
Code as a controlled substance in Schedule I.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, is required to
bear a label containing the legend “Caution: Federal law prohibits dispensing
without a prescription” or “Caution: Federal law restricts this drug to use by
or on the order of a licensed veterinarian” or any similar restrictive
statement, or may be dispensed only upon a prescription.
         (b)   Under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3715 or 3719, may be dispensed only upon
a prescription.
      (2)   Any drug that contains a Schedule V controlled substance and that
is exempt from Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719 or to which that chapter does not apply.
      (3)   Any drug intended for administration by injection into the human
body other than through a natural orifice of the human body.
      (4)   Any drug that is a biological product, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
3715.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Means to sell, leave with, give away, dispose of, or deliver.
   DISTRIBUTE. Means to deal in, ship, transport or deliver, but does not
include administering or dispensing a drug.
   DRUG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any article recognized in the official United States pharmacopeia,
national formulary, or any supplement intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or other animals.
      (2)   Any other article intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or other animals.
      (3)   Any article, other than food, intended to affect the structure or
any function of the body of humans or other animals.
      (4)   Any article intended for use as a component of any article
specified in division (1), (2), or (3) above; but does not include devices or
their components, parts, or accessories.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of
drugs, or any violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041,
2925.05, 2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24,
2925.31, 2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Any person who, by reason of the use of any drug of
abuse, is physically and/or psychologically dependent upon the use of such drug
to the detriment of the person's health or welfare.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, any harmful intoxicant, and any
dangerous drug, as defined in this section.
   EMERGENCY FACILITY. A hospital emergency department or any other facility
that provides emergency care.
   FEDERAL DRUG ABUSE CONTROL LAWS. The “Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention
and Control Act of 1970,” 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq., as amended.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent;
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant;
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant; or
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone; or
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH. The resin or a preparation of the resin contained in marihuana,
whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid
distillate form.
   HYPODERMIC. A hypodermic syringe or needle, or other instrument or device
for the injection of medication.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LABORATORY. A laboratory approved by the State Board of Pharmacy as proper
to be entrusted with the custody of controlled substances and the use of
controlled substances for scientific and clinical purposes and for purposes of
instruction.
   LAWFUL PRESCRIPTION. A prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical
purpose by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs, that
is not altered or forged, and that was not obtained by means of deception or by
the commission of any theft offense.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS or PRESCRIBER. An
individual who is authorized by law to prescribe drugs or dangerous drugs or
drug therapy related devices in the course of the individual's professional
practice, including only the following:
      (1)   A dentist licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (2)   A clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife, or certified
nurse practitioner who holds a current, valid license to practice nursing as an
advanced practice registered nurse issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (3)   An optometrist licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4725 to practice
optometry under a therapeutic pharmaceutical agent’s certificate;
      (4)   A physician authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 to practice
medicine and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine
and surgery;
      (5)   A physician assistant who holds a license to practice as a
physician assistant issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4730, holds a valid
prescriber number issued by the Ohio Medical Board, and has been granted
physician-delegated prescriptive authority; or
      (6)   A veterinarian licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. A person who manufactures a controlled substance, as
“manufacture” is defined by this section.
   MARIHUANA. All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or
not, the seeds of a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a
plant of that type; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of a plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. MARIHUANA does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oils or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks, except the
resin extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant that is incapable of germination. MARIHUANA does not include
HASHISH.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   A violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July
1, 1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a
misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. An order written on a form provided for that purpose
by the Director of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, under any
laws of the United States making provision for the order, if the order forms
are authorized and required by federal law.
   OPIOID ANALGESIC. A controlled substance that has analgesic pharmacologic
activity at the opioid receptors of the central nervous system, including the
following drugs and their varying salt forms or chemical congeners:
buprenorphine, butorphanol, codeine (including acetaminophen and other
combination products), dihydrocodeine, fentanyl, hydrocodone (including
acetaminophen combination products), hydromorphone, meperidine, methadone,
morphine sulfate, oxycodone (including acetaminophen, aspirin, and other
combination products), oxymorphone, tapentadol, and tramadol.
   PERSON. Means any individual, corporation, government, governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association
or other legal entity.
   PHARMACIST. A person licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
   PHARMACY. Except when used in a context that refers to the practice of
pharmacy, means any area, room, rooms, place of business, department, or
portion of any of the foregoing, where the practice of pharmacy is conducted.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION. Means all of the following:
      (1)   A written, electronic or oral order for drugs or combination or
mixtures of drugs to be used by a particular individual or for treating a
particular animal, issued by a licensed health professional authorized to
prescribe drugs.
      (2)   For purposes of Ohio R.C. §§ 2925.61, 4723.488, 4729.44, 4730.431,
and 4731.94, a written, electronic, or oral order for naloxone issued to and in
the name of a family member, friend, or other individual in a position to
assist an individual who there is reason to believe is at risk of experiencing
an opioid-related overdose.
      (3)   For purposes of Ohio R.C. §§ 4723.4810, 4729.282, 4730.432, and
4731.93, a written, electronic, or oral order for a drug to treat chlamydia,
gonorrhea, or trichomoniasis issued to and in the name of a patient who is not
the intended user of the drug but is the sexual partner of the intended user.
      (4)   For purposes of Ohio R.C. §§ 3313.7110, 3313.7111, 3314.143,
3326.28, 3328.29, 4723.483, 4729.88, 4730.433, 4731.96, and 5101.76, a written,
electronic, or oral order for an epinephrine autoinjector issued to and in the
name of a school, school district, or camp.
      (5)   For purposes of Ohio R.C. Chapter 3728 and Ohio R.C. §§ 4723.483,
4729.88, 4730.433, and 4731.96, a written, electronic, or oral order for an
epinephrine autoinjector issued to and in the name of a qualified entity, as
defined in Ohio R.C. § 3728.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in Ohio R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison
term is a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes
and principles of sentencing under Ohio R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in Ohio R.C. § 2925.01
(W)(1) through (W)(36) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has obtained a license as a manufacturer of controlled
substances or a wholesaler of controlled substances under Ohio R.C. Chapter
3719;
      (2)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that
chapter;
      (3)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (4)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (5)   A person licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (6)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (7)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4710;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist's license, hair
designer's license, manicurist's license, esthetician's license, natural hair
stylist's license, advanced cosmetologist's license, advanced hair designer's
license, advanced manicurist's license, advanced esthetician's license,
advanced natural hair stylist's license, cosmetology instructor's license, hair
design instructor's license, manicurist instructor's license, esthetics
instructor's license, natural hair style instructor's license, independent
contractor's license, or tanning facility permit under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (9)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious intravenous sedation permit, a limited
resident's license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist's license,
or a dental hygienist's teacher's certificate under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (10)   A person who has been issued an embalmer's license, a funeral
director's license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer's or funeral director's apprenticeship under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (12)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4727;
      (14)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4728;
      (15)   A person licensed as a pharmacist, a pharmacy intern, a wholesale
distributor of dangerous drugs, or a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4729;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a
limited branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered sanitarian under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer's
license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer's or fitter's
license or trainee permit under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed and registered to practice as a nursing home
administrator under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4763; or
      (36)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Includes delivery, barter, exchange, transfer, or gift, or offer
thereof, and each transaction of those natures made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, II, III, IV OR V. Controlled substance Schedules I, II, III, IV,
and V established pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 3719.41, as amended pursuant to Ohio
R.C. § 3719.43 or 3719.44.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under Ohio R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under Ohio R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. A person who, on official written orders other than
prescriptions, supplies controlled substances that the person has not
manufactured, produced or prepared personally and includes WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS, which means a person engaged in the sale of
dangerous drugs at wholesale and includes any agent or employee of that person
authorized by that person to engage in the sale of dangerous drugs at
wholesale.
(ORC §§ 2925.01, 3719.01, 3719.011, 3719.013, 4729.01) (1995 Code, § 138.01)
§ 138.02   TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730,
4731, and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any
other sanction imposed for the offense under this section or Ohio R.C. §§
2929.11 through 2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section may suspend the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of the offender in accordance
with Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(G). However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was
convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States arising
out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit in accordance
with Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(G). If the offender is a professionally licensed
person, the court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of Ohio R.C. § 3719.21
and except as provided in Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(H), the Clerk of the Court shall
pay any mandatory fine imposed pursuant to this section and any fine other than
a mandatory fine that is imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 2929.18(A) or (B)(5) to the county, township, municipality, park
district, as created pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 511.18 or 1545.04, or state law
enforcement agencies in this state that primarily were responsible for or
involved in making the arrest of, and in prosecuting, the offender. However,
the Clerk shall not pay a mandatory fine so imposed to a law enforcement agency
unless the agency has adopted a written internal control policy under division
(E)(2) of this section that addresses the use of the fine moneys that it
receives. Each agency shall use the mandatory fines so paid to subsidize the
agency's law enforcement efforts that pertain to drug offenses, in accordance
with the written internal control policy adopted by the recipient agency under
division (E)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Prior to receiving any fine moneys under division (E)(1) of this
section or Ohio R.C. § 2925.42(B), a law enforcement agency shall adopt a
written internal control policy that addresses the agency's use and disposition
of all fine moneys so received and that provides for the keeping of detailed
financial records of the receipts of those fine moneys, the general types of
expenditures made out of those fine moneys, and the specific amount of each
general type of expenditure. The policy shall not provide for or permit the
identification of any specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing
investigation. All financial records of the receipts of those fine moneys, the
general type of expenditures made out of those fine moneys, and the specific
amount of each general type of expenditure by an agency are public records open
for inspection under Ohio R.C. § 149.43. Additionally, a written internal
control policy adopted under this division is such a public record, and the
agency that adopted it shall comply with it.
      (3)   As used in division (E) of this section:
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES. Includes, but is not limited to, the State
Board of Pharmacy and the office of a prosecutor.
         PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01.
   (F)   As used in this section, DRUG includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(ORC § 2925.03) (1995 Code, § 138.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03   DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730,
4731, and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
2929.01
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. §
2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. §
2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or Ohio
R.C. § 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
§ 2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in Ohio R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in Ohio R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever
is applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion
either to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996,” 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4),
and (C)(5), if the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or II of R.C. § 3719.41, or is
cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, a controlled substance analog, or a compound, mixture
or preparation containing such drugs, possession of drugs is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved is a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance included in Schedule III, IV, or V of Ohio R.C. § 3719.41, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs. The
penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division,
possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions,
possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing hashish, whoever violates division
(A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty for the
offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions,
possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.21 through
2929.28, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that
sentences an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the
offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If applicable, the
court also shall do the following:
      (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of Ohio R.C. § 3719.21, the
Clerk of Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall
use the fine as specified in Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F).
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(ORC § 2925.11) (1995 Code, § 138.03)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see Ohio R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04   POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(ORC § 2925.12) (1995 Code, § 138.04)
§ 138.05   PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in Ohio R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.02 or 2925.03.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14 and in
addition to any other sanction imposed for the offense under this section or
Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.11 to 2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section
may suspend for not more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was
convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States arising
out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more
than five years. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in
addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the
court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of Ohio R.C. § 3719.21, the
Clerk of Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall
use the fine as specified in Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F).
   (F)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC § 2925.13) (1995 Code, § 138.05)
§ 138.06   ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in Ohio R.C. §
2925.03(B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to the extent and under the circumstances described in that
division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any
other sanction imposed for the offense under this section or Ohio R.C. §§
2929.11 through 2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section may suspend the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit in accordance with
Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(G). However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was
convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States arising
out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit in accordance
with Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(G). If the offender is a professionally licensed
person, the court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person's
appearance as a witness.
   (F)   (1)   If the sentencing court suspends the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit under this section in accordance with
Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(G), the offender may request termination of, and the court
may terminate, the suspension of the offender in accordance with that division.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under this division (F)(2), the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(ORC § 2925.04)
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see Ohio R.C. §
2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see Ohio R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07   ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(ORC § 2925.31) (1995 Code, § 138.07)
§ 138.08   ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or II of Ohio R.C. § 3719.41
with the exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, IV or V
of Ohio R.C. § 3719.41, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14 and in
addition to any other sanction imposed for the offense under this section or
Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.11 to 2929.18, the court that sentences an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section
may suspend for not more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was
convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States arising
out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more
than five years. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in
addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the
court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of Ohio R.C. § 3719.21, the
Clerk of Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall
use the fine as specified in Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(ORC § 2925.36) (1995 Code, § 138.08)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09   FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(ORC §§ 2925.50, 3719.19) (1995 Code, § 138.09)
§ 138.10   NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section; or
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person's business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person's business address.
(ORC § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET, and HIGHWAY have
the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking; or
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(ORC § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see Ohio R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11   LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another
law enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority
of an institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state
and that is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North
Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the
purpose of providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed
by the person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the
basis of the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the
findings as to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it
contains any amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of
unit dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or
the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this
chapter, Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the
possession of chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation,
or substance included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report
from the Bureau or from any laboratory that is operated or established as
described in this division that is signed by the person performing the
analysis, stating that the substances that are the basis of the alleged offense
have been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as to the content,
weight, and identity of each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the
content, identity, and weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney's receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused's analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused's analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapters
2925 or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any
multiple thereof, or who is accused of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 2925.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor
violation, that involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to
the prosecuting attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice,
or, if the accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the
court, present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis
of the alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further
written request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result
from the measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving
at conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number
of unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(ORC § 2925.51) (1995 Code, § 138.11)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
Ohio R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or
required under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order
the offender to pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies
that handled the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state,
municipal corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed
under this section or Ohio R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any
substance that was the basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine
whether the substance contained any amount of a controlled substance if the
results of the tests indicate that the substance tested contained any
controlled substance. No court shall order an offender under this section to
pay the costs of tests performed on a substance if the results of the tests do
not indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. The
court shall hold a hearing to determine the amount of costs to be imposed under
this section. The court may hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing
for the offender.
(ORC § 2925.511)
§ 138.12   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of Ohio R.C. § 3719.21,
the Clerk of Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F).
      (2)   The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in Ohio R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(ORC § 2925.37(A), (G), (M)) (1995 Code, § 138.12)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
Ohio R.C. § 2925.37(H) through (K)
§ 138.13   USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, any of the following equipment,
products, or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived;
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance;
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine;
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance;
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance;
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance;
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana;
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance;
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance;
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance;
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body; or
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use;
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925;
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance;
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material;
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment,
product, or material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia;
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use;
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use;
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material;
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale;
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community; and
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by Ohio R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that
was used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall
be seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with Ohio R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United
States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for
which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall
not file such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(ORC § 2925.14) (1995 Code, § 138.13)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in section division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation division (H) of this section, the court may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of Ohio R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with Ohio R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or law of another state
or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14   LOITERING IN DRUG-FREE ZONE.
   The Safety-Service Director (i.e., the Police Chief) is empowered to certify
zones within the village as drug free zones, based upon the criteria set forth
herein.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter about or remain at any public
way, public place or place open or legally accessible to the public within a
certified drug free zone, as herein provided for the purpose of engaging in
drug-related activity that is prohibited by any of the provisions of Ohio R.C.
§§ 2925.01 et seq., as amended, relating to the manufacture, distribution,
sale, possession, or administration of substances covered therein.
   (B)   In making a determination that a person is loitering about or
remaining at any public way, public place or place open or legally accessible
to the public within a certified drug free zone, as herein provided, for the
purpose of engaging in prohibited drug-related activity, the totality of the
circumstances involved shall be considered. Among the circumstances which may
be considered in determining whether such purpose is manifested are:
      (1)   The conduct of the person being observed, including, by way of
example only, that such person is be having in a manner raising a reasonable
belief that the person is engaging or is about to engage in illegal drug
activity such as the observable distribution of small packages to other
persons, the receipt of currency for the exchange of a small package, operating
as a “lookout,” warning others of the arrival of police, fleeing without other
apparent reason upon the appearance of a police officer, concealing himself or
herself or any object which reasonably may be connected to unlawful drug-
related activity, or engaging in any other conduct normally associated by law
enforcement agencies with the illegal distribution or possession of drugs;
      (2)   Information from a reliable source indicating that the person being
observed routinely distributes illegal drugs within the drug free zone;
      (3)   Information from a reliable source indicating that the person being
observed is currently engaging in illegal drug-related activity within the drug
free zone;
      (4)   Such person is physically identified by the officer as a member of
a “gang” or association which engages in illegal drug activity;
      (5)   Such person is known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller. A
KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR, or SELLER is a person who has, within the
knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court of any
violation of a referenced provision of the referenced state code involving the
regulation, use, possession, purchase, or sale of any of the substances
referred to therein, or convicted of violating a substantially similar
provision of federal law or such law or any other jurisdiction; or a person who
displays physical characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as
dilated pupils, glassy eyes or “needle tracks” or a person who possesses drug
paraphernalia as defined in Ohio R.C. §§ 2925.01 et seq.;
      (6)   Such person has no other apparent lawful reason for loitering or
remaining in the drug free zone (e.g., such as waiting for a bus or being near
one's own residence); and
      (7)   Any vehicle involved in the observed circumstances is registered to
a known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller, or a person for whom there is
an outstanding arrest warrant for a crime involving drug-related activity.
   (C)   A police officer shall first request a person suspected of loitering
under this section within a drug free zone to leave the premises. Failure to
obey the police officer shall subject the person to arrest.
   (D)   Certified drug free zones shall be created and enforced as follows.
      (1)   Those sections of the village certified as such by the Safety-
Service Director (i.e., the Police Chief), including but not limited to
identifiable segments of streets, alleys, walkways, parks, recreation centers,
schools, bus stations, train depots, taxi stands, commercial parking lots,
places of public accommodation and convenience, public housing complexes and
public access areas in residential apartment structures. The Police Chief may
establish, alter, recertify, or terminate such certification from time to time,
but any such certification will expire three months from the date of its
issuance. A certified drug free zone is a geographical area of certification
unless recertified for an additional three months prior to expiring. The
Safety-Service Director shall cause to be disseminated to all police
enforcement personnel a current list of certified drug free zones.
      (2)   To determine whether to certify an area as a “drug free zone,” the
Safety-Service Director shall consider the following:
         (a)   Reporting crime accepted and relied upon by law enforcement
agencies which indicate a disproportionately high occurrence of illegal drug
possession or distribution activity in the proposed drug free zone;
         (b)   One homicide or more than one instance of violent crime verified
to have been related to the possession or distribution of illegal drugs
committed within the previous six-month period within the proposed drug free
zone;
         (c)   Arrests or other statistical criteria that indicate illegal drug
activity is occurring in an area listed in division (1) above or any other
identifiable area legally accessible to the public; law enforcement agencies
that indicate to the Safety-Service Director that the health or safety or
residents that live in or near the proposed drug free zone are endangered by
the possession or distribution of illegal drugs.
         (d)   Any other verifiable information accepted prior to such
certification to the Mayor, and the President and members of the Village
Council of the specific area to be certified including the boundaries of the
area and the date when the certification will begin.
      (3)   Prior to certifying or recertifying a drug free zone, the Safety-
Service Director shall:
         (a)   Cause to be published at least one week prior of the certified
drug free zone, the date certification will begin and end, and a phone number
to call for additional information.
         (b)   Provide written notice, not less that one week prior to
certification, which informs the community in and surrounding the area to be
certified of such certification including by way of example: use of mass media,
publication in community newsletters or newspapers in general circulation in
the village, meetings with community groups and citizens, notification at
community relations councils or any other means deemed appropriate.
         (c)   Post at least three days prior to certification a notice in the
area to be certified establishing the boundaries thereof.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who violates the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, and upon conviction shall be
subject to imprisonment for not more than 30 days or a fine of $250.
(1995 Code, § 138.14) (Ord. 90-O-56, passed 11-14-1990)
§ 138.15   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
Ohio R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(ORC § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or Ohio R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a
violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If the violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a
Schedule I or II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if
the offender, as a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then Ohio
R.C. § 3719.99(D) applies.
(ORC § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.16   POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person's profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his or her possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal; and
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person's possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(ORC § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, Ohio R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.17   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in Ohio
R.C. § 3719.41 and amended by Ohio R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby
adopted by reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
Statutory reference:
   For comprehensive lists of drugs identified under each of the following
Schedules, see Ohio R.C. § 3719.41, as amended by Ohio R.C. §§ 3719.43 and
3719.44:
 
Schedule I
(A)   Narcotics - opiates
(B)   Narcotics - opium derivatives
(C)   Hallucinogens
(D)    Depressants
(E)    Stimulants
 
 
Schedule II
(A)    Narcotics - opium and opium derivatives
(B)    Narcotics - opiates
(C)    Stimulants
(D)    Depressants
(E)    Hallucinogenic substances
(F)    Immediate precursors
 
 
Schedule III
(A)    Stimulants
(B)    Depressants
(C)    Narcotic antidotes
(D)    Narcotics - narcotic preparations
(E)    Anabolic steroids
(F)    Hallucinogenic substances
 
 
Schedule IV
(A)    Narcotic drugs
(B)    Depressants
(C)    Fenfluramine
(D)    Stimulants
(E)    Other substances
 
 
Schedule V
(A)    Narcotic drugs
(B)    Narcotics - narcotic preparations
(C)    Stimulants
 
§ 138.18   UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard, or license plates under Ohio R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person
does not meet any of the criteria contained in Ohio R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1); or
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person's ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under Ohio R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer
than that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(ORC §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.19   PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(ORC § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD . Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the county
treasury.
(ORC § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid; and
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under Ohio R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(ORC § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under Chapter 4729. of the Revised Code
to engage in the practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(ORC § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss; and
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(ORC § 3715.06)
§ 138.20 MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATORS, PROCESSORS, AND RETAIL DISPENSARY
ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The cultivation, processing, or retail dispensing of medical marijuana, even
under a license issued under R.C. Chapter 3796, is prohibited within the
Village of Lincoln Heights, Hamilton County, Ohio.
(Ord. 2021-O-4, passed 10-25-2021)
CHAPTER 139: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
139.01   Abuse of a corpse
   
139.02   [Reserved]
   
139.03   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
139.04   Ethnic intimidation
   
139.05   Jacklighting prohibited
   
139.06   Careless smoking
   
139.07   Campaign expenditures
   
139.08   Tobacco free zone
   
139.09   Placement of garbage or trash receptacles for collection
§ 139.01   ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2927.01) (1995 Code, § 139.01)
§ 139.02   [RESERVED]
§ 139.03   INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined
in that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4112.01, national
origin, military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in
that section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations,
or facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in Ohio R.C. § 4112.01, national
origin, military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in
that section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations,
or facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC § 2927.03) (1995 Code, § 139.06)
§ 139.04   ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate Ohio R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or
2909.07, or Ohio R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the
race, color, religion, or national origin of another person or group of
persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC § 2927.12) (1995 Code, § 139.07)
§ 139.05   JACKLIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast the rays of a spotlight or other
artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland, or forest while
having in his or her possession a hunting device, or throw or cast the rays of
a spotlight or other artificial light from any vehicle into any field,
woodland, or forest for the purpose of locating a wild animal.
   (B)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers, wildlife
officers, military personnel, and officers or employees of the Department of
Natural Resources while in the performance of their duties, or to any landowner
or lessee having a reason to use a light while engaged in surveillance or
protection of his or her property.
   (C)   An officer whose duty it is to enforce this chapter may arrest a
person whom he or she has reasonable grounds to believe is violating this
section, search the vehicle for firearms or other hunting implements in the
possession or under the control of that person, and seize the same.
(ORC § 1533.161) (1995 Code, § 139.08)
§ 139.06   CARELESS SMOKING.
   (A)   No person shall in smoking or using lighters or matches for smoking
set fire to the contents of or any building.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of careless smoking, a first
degree misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 139.09)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.07   CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, POLITICAL COMMITTEE shall mean any
individual, committee, group, organization, or association organized for the
support of one or more councilmanic candidates.
   (B)   No person shall make a contribution in cash to or for the benefit of
any councilmanic candidate or political committee in excess, in the aggregate,
during any calendar year, of $50. Any contribution beyond such sum must be made
by a written instrument identifying the person making the contribution.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
making illegal contributions, a first degree misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 139.10)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 139.08 TOBACCO FREE ZONE.
   All Village owned property is hereby declared to be a smoke-free zone.
(Ord. 2010-O-3, passed 5-25-2010)
§ 139.09 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE OR TRASH RECEPTACLES FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   No person shall place refuse, trash or garbage at the curb or curb
line before 5:00 p.m. on the day before the scheduled pick up day. If the
scheduled pick up day is a holiday, the refuse pick up is the following work
day.
   (B)   Any receptacle used to place such refuse, trash or garbage at the curb
or curb line shall be removed before 9:00 a.m. on the day after the scheduled
pick up day. As used herein, "removed" means that said receptacle shall not be
visible from the front of any dwelling.
   (C)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2015-O-15, passed 12-28-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-O-01, passed 2-24-2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
   
152.   URBAN RENEWAL
   
153.   ZONING CODE
   
154.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS, ANTENNA, TOWER AND SITE REGULATIONS
   
155.   STORAGE OF WOOD
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Aluminum wiring
Building Code and Permits
   
150.15   Building code adopted
   
150.16   Permit fees adopted
Housing Code
   
150.25   Adoption
   
150.26   Amendments (Repealed)
   
150.27   Protection of vacant housing
House Numbers
   
150.35   House numbers required; designation
Trailer Coaches and Business Vehicles
   
150.45   Definitions
   
150.46   Location of trailer coach and business vehicles
Unsafe Structures
   
150.60   Condemnation
   
150.61   Definition
   
150.62   Standards for repairs, vacation, or demolition
   
150.63   Dangerous building as nuisance
   
150.64   Notice
   
150.65   Emergency repair, vacation, or demolition
   
150.66   Service of notice
   
150.67   Appeal
   
150.68   Housing Board of Appeals
   
150.69   Inspections
   
150.70   Administrative liability
   
150.71   Violation
Residential Code of Ohio
   
150.80   Enforcement of Residential Code of Ohio
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01   ALUMINUM WIRING.
   (A)   It shall be illegal to use aluminum wire for electrical purposes in
the construction of any residential buildings, apartments, schools, churches,
and public buildings within the village.
   (B)   A special variance for commercial and industrial use must be received
from the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall ascertain the use of copper wiring before
a permit of occupancy is issued.
(1995 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 78-O-15, passed 6-26-1978)
BUILDING CODE AND PERMITS
§ 150.15   BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The current version of Hamilton County Building Code and any
subsequent amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference as the basic
Building Code of the village unless otherwise amended or supplemented by
Council.
   (B)   The current provisions of the Hamilton County Building Code, or any
subsequent amendments thereto shall be enforced both as to new construction and
existing structures within the village, unless otherwise amended or
supplemented by Council.
(1995 Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 71-17, passed 5-17-1971; Am. Ord. 90-O-50, passed
11-14-1990; Am. Ord. 96-O-3, passed 2-26-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Building inspector, see §
36.02
§ 150.16   PERMIT FEES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The current Schedule of Fees of Hamilton County Building Commissioner
and any amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference as the fee structure
of the village in the issuance of building permits and certificates of
occupancy, unless otherwise amended or supplemented by Council.
   (B)   An initial filing fee of $40 shall be charged for new construction
plans submitted to the village for review and $25 shall be charged for plans
for modifications to existing structures that are submitted to the village for
review.
   (C)   The permit fee for erection of a tent or group of tents approved as to
construction, use and location in compliance with the Ohio Basic Building Code
shall be $125 per month or any portion thereof.
(1995 Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 93-O-2, passed 3-10-1993; Am. Ord. 96-O-3, passed
2-26-1996; Am. Ord. 96-O-16, passed 6-24-1996)
HOUSING CODE
§ 150.25   ADOPTION.
   (A)   The current edition of the Cincinnati Building Code and any subsequent
amendatory provisions thereof are hereby adopted by reference as the Housing
Code of the Village of Lincoln Heights. Provided, however, that with regard to
the issuance of night-time construction permits provided for in Section 1101-
59.1, the City Engineer and/or the Director of Buildings and Inspections may
issue permits for night-time construction between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. the following day, only when an emergency exists regarding gas,
electric, water, sewer, or telecommunications.
   (B)   A copy of the current Cincinnati Building Code and any amendatory
provisions thereof shall be filed with the original copy of this section.
(1995 Code, § 152.25) (Ord. 8-1967, passed 7-13-1967; Am. Ord. 96-O-3, passed
2-26-1996; Am. Ord. 2001-O-58, passed 12-17-2001; Am. Ord. 2011-O-1, passed 3-
28-2011)
§ 150.26   AMENDMENTS (REPEALED).
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Ordinance 97-O-4, passed
January 29, 1997.)
(1995 Code, § 152.26) (Ord. 68-14, passed 8-9-1968; Am. Ord. 97-O-4, passed 1-
29-1997)
§ 150.27   PROTECTION OF VACANT HOUSING.
   (A)   The owner of any vacant building, whether residential, commercial, or
industrial, must within 15 days after its vacancy secure and protect such
building as follows:
      (1)   All exterior doors must be padlocked;
      (2)   All windows must be boarded up with no less than ½ inch plywood and
secured from the inside;
      (3)   All utilities, including gas, electric, and water must be turned
off; and
      (4)   Any vacant building must be cleared of all flammable materials and
debris.
   (B)   If the owner of a vacant building fails to comply with division (A)
hereof, the Village Manager or his or her representative shall notify such
owner by registered mail of the noncompliance of such owner and give the owner
seven calendar days after the date of the notice to comply. If such owner fails
to comply within the seven day period, then the Village Manager will direct the
appropriate officer of the village to cause such security measures to be
installed on the vacant building as is necessary.
   (C)   The Village Manager shall make a claim on the owner of any vacant
building for moneys expended by the village in boarding up and securing such
vacant building. If the owner of a vacant building fails to pay the village,
the Village Manager or his or her representative shall proceed to take the
necessary legal action to reduce the claim of the village against such owner to
judgment and file the judgment in the office of County Recorder as a judgment
lien.
(1995 Code, § 150.27) (Ord. 81-O-6, passed 4-13-1981)
HOUSE NUMBERS
§ 150.35   HOUSE NUMBERS REQUIRED; DESIGNATION.
   House numbers shall be displayed on notification by the Safety-Service
Director of the proper number of a building; the owner of such building shall
cause such number to be placed and continuously maintained in a conspicuous
place in the front of that building. If a building stands back more than 45
feet from the street line, the number shall be conspicuously displayed at or
near the walk, driveway, or common entrance to that building at the street line
or a gate post, fence, tree, post, or other appropriate place, so as to be
easily legible from the sidewalk.
(1995 Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 7-1956, passed 9-12-1956)
Penalty, see § 150.99
TRAILER COACHES AND BUSINESS VEHICLES
§ 150.45   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OTHER VEHICLES. Any discarded bus, ambulance, large automobile, or coach.
   TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle constructed, used, or maintained for use as a
conveyance on public streets, and so designed and so constructed as will permit
occupancy thereof as temporary dwelling or sleeping places for one or more
persons, or the conduct of any business, profession, occupation, or trade.
(1995 Code, § 150.45) (Ord. 9-1954, passed 11-1-1954)
§ 150.46   LOCATION OF TRAILER COACH AND BUSINESS VEHICLES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall locate or station on any lot, or other
premises within the village, any trailer coach or other vehicle for the
purposes of dwelling therein, or of conducting any business, profession, trade,
or occupation.
(1995 Code, § 150.46) (Ord. 9-1954, passed 11-1-1954)
Penalty, see § 150.99
UNSAFE STRUCTURES
§ 150.60   CONDEMNATION.
   Buildings and structures shall be condemned as dangerous buildings or unsafe
for human occupancy as provided in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 150.60) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.61   DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. All buildings or structures which have the following
defects:
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more damage
or deterioration of the supporting member of 50% of the nonsupporting,
enclosing, or outside walls for the purpose used;
      (3)   Those which have improperly distributed loads on the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals, or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the village;
      (5)   Those which have become so dilapidated, decayed, insanitary,
vermin-infested, rodent-infested, or which so utterly fail to provide the
amenities essential to decent living that they are unfit for human occupancy,
or are likely to cause sickness or disease so as to be injurious to the health,
morals, safety, or general welfare of those living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of human
beings who live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, or fire escapes for
normal usage and passage;
      (8)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure public members or property; or
      (9)   Those buildings existing in violation of the Building Code as
adopted by the village or any provision of the fire prevention code, or any
other ordinance of this village establishing standards for the promotion and
protection of the safety and health of people.
(1995 Code, § 150.61) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.62   STANDARDS FOR REPAIRS, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector in ordering repair, vacation, or demolition.
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be
ordered vacated.
   (C)   In any case where a dangerous building is 50% damaged or decayed, or
deteriorated from its original value or structure it shall be demolished, and
in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be demolished. In
all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of state laws or the Fire or Zoning Codes of the village, it shall be
demolished.
(1995 Code, § 150.62) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.63   DANGEROUS BUILDING AS NUISANCE.
   All dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter are declared to
be public nuisances, and shall be repaired, vacated, or demolished as herein
provided.
(1995 Code, § 150.63) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.64   NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of the declaration of any building under this code as being a
dangerous building and the order to be vacated, repaired, or demolished shall
be served as provided in §
150.66.
   (B)   Any structure or building declared to be a dangerous building shall be
posted with a placard by the Building Inspector. The placard shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name of the village;
      (2)   The name of the authorized department having jurisdiction;
      (3)   The subchapter and section of the code under which it is issued;
      (4)   An order stating the following, that this structure is an unsafe
condition and is a menace to life and property. The public is hereby warned to
keep out of and away from this condemned property. The removal or defacing of
this notice is a criminal offense;
      (5)   The date that the placard is posted; and
      (6)   A statement of the penalty for defacing or removing the placard.
   (C)   Whenever the Building Inspector has declared a structure a dangerous
building, he or she shall give notice in writing to the owner, occupant,
lessee, mortgagee, agent, and any other persons having an interest in that
property, of such declaration and placarding of the structure as a dangerous
building and unfit for human habitation. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include an order that the owner, occupant, lessee, agent, or
mortgagee must vacate, repair, or demolish the building in accordance with the
terms of the notice and this subchapter; and
      (4)   Shall include a statement that any person notified to repair,
vacate, or demolish any structure shall be given a reasonable time not to
exceed 30 days to do, or have done, the work or act required by the notice,
except when the notice has declared the order to be an emergency.
(1995 Code, § 150.64) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.65   EMERGENCY REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   In cases where it appears that there is immediate danger to life or safety
of any person unless a dangerous building is immediately repaired, vacated, or
demolished, the Building Inspector shall report such facts to the Building
Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall then cause the immediate repair,
vacation, or demolition of such dangerous building. The cost of such emergency
repair, vacation, or demolition shall be collected as specified in §
150.71(D).
(1995 Code, § 150.65) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.66   SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice to vacate, demolish, or repair shall be by one of the
following methods:
   (A)   By delivery to the owner personally or by leaving notice at the usual
place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and discretion;
   (B)   By certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at his or her
last known address with postage paid thereon;
   (C)   By posting and keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice in
placard form in a conspicuous place on the premises to be vacated; or
   (D)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
where structure is located. The notice shall be advertised for five days.
(1995 Code, § 150.66) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.67   APPEAL.
   The Building Commissioner shall on receipt of the report that written notice
to vacate, repair, or demolish has been given to the owner, occupant,
mortgagee, lessee, and agent, cause a written notice to be sent to the above-
mentioned parties that they have the right to appeal the order to the Housing
Board of Appeals, in writing within 15 days of the date of the notice to show
cause why the dangerous building should not be repaired, vacated, or demolished
in accordance to the order of the Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 150.67) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.68   HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Housing Board of Appeals shall consist of five members appointed
by the Mayor with approval of Council. They shall serve for a term of four
years and be electors of the village.
   (B)   The Board with the approval of Council may pass regulations to
establish procedures for its operation.
   (C)   The Housing Board of Appeals shall hold hearings and hear such
testimony as the Building Inspector, owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, or any
other person having an interest in the building shall offer relative to the
dangerous building within ten days of filing an appeal by the objectors.
   (D)   The Housing Board of Appeals shall make a record of its findings of
fact from the testimony offered concerning whether the structures or building
in question is a dangerous.
   (E)   The Housing Board of Appeals may affirm, modify, reverse, or remand
for further action any orders of the Building Inspector.
   (F)   The Housing Board of Appeals shall render a final order within five
days of the hearing.
   (G)   Any final order rendered by the Housing Board of Appeals requiring
actions by the owner, occupant, lessee, or agent of property owner shall have a
time limitation for completion of such activity.
      (1)   If the final order requires demolition, then the owner or his or
her agent shall be required to complete this action within 15 days after the
final order is rendered.
      (2)   If the final order requires vacation of the premises, then the
owner-occupant or renter-lessee shall be required to complete this action
within ten days after the final order is rendered.
(1995 Code, § 150.68)
§ 150.69   INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or Building Commissioner shall inspect or cause
to be inspected semiannually all public buildings, schools, halls, churches,
theaters, hotels, tenements, commercial manufacturing, or loft buildings for
the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which render the place
a dangerous building.
   (B)   The Building Inspector or Building Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Inspect any building walls or structure about which complaints have
been filed by any person; and
      (2)   Inspect any building wall or structure reported by the Fire or
Police Department.
(1995 Code, § 150.69) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.70   ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent, or employee of the village shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
liable as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or
her duties under this subchapter. Any suit brought against any officer, agent,
or employee of the village as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this subchapter shall be defended by the
Director of Legal Services until the final determination of the proceedings
therein.
(1995 Code, § 150.70) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 150.71   VIOLATION.
   (A)   In case any violation order is not promptly complied with, the
Building Inspector may request the legal representative of the village to
institute an appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity against the
person responsible for the violation, ordering him or her:
      (1)   To restrain, correct, or remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
      (2)   To restrain or correct the erection, installation, or alteration of
such building;
      (3)   To require the removal of work in violation; or
      (4)   To comply with penalty provision of this code.
   (B)   Notice of the violation shall be served on the owner through the Clerk
of Courts by the process of summons. The summons shall be served on the owner
personally, or if not found, then by leaving a copy thereof at his or her usual
place of abode with a person of suitable age or by sending the summons by
certified U.S. mail.
   (C)   The summons shall include:
      (1)   A description of real estate sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A specification of the violation which exists and remedial action
required; and
      (3)   The date and time for appearance in the Mayor's Court.
   (D)   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee, or lessee fail to comply with the
order of the Building Department or Housing Board of Appeals, in addition to
the criminal penalties set forth in §
150.99, the village shall cause such building or structure to be repaired,
vacated, or demolished as the facts may warrant. The cost of such repair,
vacation, or demolition shall be charged against the owner, occupant, or
lessee.
(1995 Code, § 150.71) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO
§ 150.80 ENFORCEMENT OF RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO.
   Ohio Administrative Code 4101:8 - Residential Code of Ohio as promulgated by
the Ohio Board of Building Standards, shall apply and be enforced within the
Village.
(Ord. 2006-O-10, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 150.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision
of this chapter for which no other penalty is set forth shall be subject to the
penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Unsafe structures. Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate
any provision of the subchapter set forth in §§
150.60 et seq. shall on conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor in the fourth
degree subject to a fine not to exceed $250 and imprisonment not to exceed 30
days.
(1995 Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 77-O-4, passed 3-14-1977)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Land use and control measures
   
151.02   Responsibility of Building and Zoning Officer
   
151.03   Record of elevations
§ 151.01   LAND USE AND CONTROL MEASURES.
   The Village Council shall enact as necessary, and maintain in force for
those areas having flood or mud slide hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set
forth in § 1910 of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations.
(1995 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 75-49, passed 6-24-1975)
§ 151.02   RESPONSIBILITY OF BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICER.
   The Building and Zoning Officer shall have the responsibility, authority,
and means to:
   (A)   Delineate or assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in
delineating the limits of the area having special flood or mudslide hazards on
available local maps of sufficient scale to identify the location of building
sites;
   (B)   Provide such information as the Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the floodplain or mudslide areas;
   (C)   Cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map, and identify floodplain or mudslide
areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to management of
adjoining floodplain or mudslide area in order to prevent aggravation of
existing hazards; and
   (D)   Submit on the anniversary date of the community's initial eligibility
an annual report to the Administrator on the progress made during the past year
within the community in the development and implementation of floodplain or
mudslide area management measures.
(1995 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 75-49, passed 6-24-1975)
§ 151.03   RECORD OF ELEVATIONS.
   The Housing and Zoning Officer shall maintain for public inspection and
furnish on request a record of elevations (in mean relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures located in the special flood hazard areas. If the lowest floor is
below grade on one or more sides, the elevation of the floor immediately above
that floor shall be recorded also.
(1995 Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 75-49, passed 6-24-1975)
CHAPTER 152: URBAN RENEWAL
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Necessity of urban renewal
   
152.02   Policy
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Village Manager to supervise activities
   
152.05   Preparation of studies and plans
   
152.06   Contents of plans; supporting documentation
   
152.07   Action by Planning Commission
   
152.08   Public hearing and Council action
   
152.09   Federal aid contracts
   
152.10   Modification of plans
   
152.11   Execution of urban renewal plans
   
152.12   Finance
   
152.13   Building permits
   
152.14   Tax exemption
Administration
   
152.20   Officers to administer program
   
152.21   Relocation supervisor
   
152.22   Coordinator of social services
   
152.23   Other personnel
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01   NECESSITY OF URBAN RENEWAL.
   It is found and determined that there exist within the village, slum,
blighted, deteriorated, and deteriorating areas of the nature defined in this
chapter which constitute a serious and growing menace injurious and inimicable
to the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents
thereof; and the existence of such areas:
   (A)   Contributes substantially and increasingly to the spread of disease
and crime, and to losses by fire and accident, necessitating excessive and
disproportionate expenditures of public funds for the preservation of the
public health and safety, for crime prevention, correction, prosecution, and
punishment, for the treatment of juvenile delinquency, for the maintenance of
adequate police, fire, and accident protection, and for other public services
and facilities;
   (B)   Constitutes an economic and social liability; and
   (C)   Substantially impairs and arrests the sound growth of the community;
retards the provision of housing accommodations, aggravates traffic problems,
and substantially impairs or arrests the elimination of traffic hazards and the
improvement of traffic facilities; and that this menace is beyond remedy and
control solely by regulatory processes and exercise of the police power, and
cannot be dealt with effectively by ordinary operation of private enterprise
without the aids herein provided; that the elimination in whole or in part of
slum, blighted, deteriorated, and deteriorating areas, and the prevention of
occurrence or recurrence of such areas by redevelopment and by the
conservation, rehabilitation, and reconditioning, to the extent feasible, of
the salvageable portions of such areas, and by other activities pursuant to-
urban redevelopment or urban renewal, are public uses and purposes for which
public money may be expended and private property acquired by purchase, by
donation, and by eminent domain and are governmental functions of concern to
the village, and require the exercise of the powers of government granted to
the village by the provisions of Article XVI II of the Ohio Constitution and
that the necessity in the public interest and general welfare, for the
provision of this chapter is declared as a matter of legislative determination.
(1995 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.02   POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of the Village Council to promote and
encourage the sound development, including renewal and redevelopment where
necessary, of the entire village in accordance with the general plan for the
village. Council realizes that the village government will be unable to carry
out coordinated and effective programs for renewing the village without the
cooperation and support of the public as a whole. Therefore, the Council stands
ready to cooperate with private enterprise, civic groups, neighborhood
agencies, and governmental agencies in developing and carrying out urban
renewal programs and projects to promote the sound development of new areas, to
prevent the spread of slums and blight and to eliminate slums, blighted,
deteriorated, and deteriorating areas in the village.
(1995 Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.03   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning.
   AGENCY or URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY or LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY or VILLAGE. The
Village of Lincoln Heights.
   DETERIORATING AREA.
      (1)   An area, whether predominantly built up or open, which is not a
slum, blighted, or deteriorated area but which, because of incompatible land
uses, nonconforming uses, lack of adequate parking facilities, faulty street
arrangement, obsolete platting, inadequate community and public utilities,
diversity of ownership, tax delinquency, increased density of population
without commensurate increases in new residential buildings and community
facilities, high turnover in residential or commercial occupancy, lack of
maintenance and repair of buildings, or any combination thereof, is detrimental
to the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare, and which will
deteriorate, or is in danger of deteriorating, into a slum, blighted, or
deteriorated area.
      (2)   An area consisting principally of land in highways, railway, or
subway tracks, bridge or tunnel entrances, or other similar facilities which
have a blighting influence on the surrounding area and over which air right
sites can be developed thereby eliminating such blighting influence.
   GENERAL NEIGHBORHOOD RENEWAL AREA. An urban renewal area of such scope that
urban renewal activities therein have to be carried out in more than one
separate urban renewal project, over an estimated period of up to ten years.
   GENERAL NEIGHBORHOOD RENEWAL PLAN. The plan and program, as it exists from
time to time, for the urban renewal or redevelopment of a general neighborhood
renewal area. The general neighborhood renewal plan need not contain all of the
required contents set forth in §
152.06 hereof with respect to an urban renewal plan or urban redevelopment
plan. Approval of the general neighborhood renewal plan by the Council does not
create authority to carry out project execution activities.
   GENERAL PLAN or MASTER PLAN. A broad and general guide and pattern for the
future growth and development of the village including maps, plats, charts, and
descriptive, interpretive and analytical narratives, as may be appropriate and
specifically shall mean the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the Village Planning
Commission pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 713.02, and any subsequent amendments
thereto.
   OPEN SPACE LAND. Land which has not been developed by the construction or
installation of streets, utilities, buildings (except sporadic or incidental
structures), or other site improvements. Whether or not such area has been
platted in whole or in part does not prevent its classification as open space
land.
   PROJECT AREA or URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREA or URBAN RENEWAL AREA. A slum,
blighted, deteriorated, or deteriorating area of any combination or part
thereof which Council designates as of a character and size appropriate for
urban renewal activities and for which an urban redevelopment plan or urban
renewal plan is proposed or prepared.
   REDEVELOPER. Any person or entity purchasing property from the village
within a project area, or owning property located within such area and entering
into a conforming agreement with the village in consideration of being
permitted by the village to retain title to that property.
   REHABILITATION or CONSERVATION or RECONDITIONING. Those undertakings and
activities identified in the definition URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT in divisions (3),
(4), (5), (6), and (8).
   SLUM AREA or BLIGHTED AREA or DETERIORATED AREA. An area within the
corporate limits of the village in which there are a majority of structures or
other improvements, which by reason of dilapidation, deterioration, age, or
obsolescence, inadequate provision for ventilation, light, air, sanitation, or
open spaces, high density of population and overcrowding, unsafe and unsanitary
conditions, or the existence of conditions which endanger life or property by
fire or other hazards and causes, or any combination of such factors, and an
area with overcrowding or improper location of structures on the land,
excessive dwelling unit density, detrimental land uses or conditions, unsafe,
congested, poorly designed streets or inadequate public facilities or
utilities, all of which substantially impairs the sound growth and planning of
the community, is conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant
mortality, juvenile delinquency, and crime, and is detrimental to the public
health, safety, morals, and general welfare.
   SLUM CLEARANCE or CLEARANCE or URBAN REDEVELOPMENT. Those undertakings and
activities identified in the definition URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT in divisions (1),
(2), (3), (4), and (7).
   URBAN RENEWAL or URBAN REDEVELOPMENT. The activities of the village, with or
without federal or state aid or assistance for developing, undertaking, and
carrying out of urban renewal or redevelopment programs and projects, including
all planning and other related activities of the village in connection
therewith, or any part of such activities.
   URBAN RENEWAL PLAN or URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan as it exists from
time to time for the urban renewal or redevelopment of a project area or part
thereof.
   URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT, URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT or PROJECT. Undertakings
and activities of the village, with or without federal or state aid or
assistance, in a project area for the elimination and for the prevention of the
development or spread of slum, blighted, deteriorated, or deteriorating areas,
and may involve clearance and redevelopment in a project area, or
rehabilitation and conservation in a project area, or any combination or part
thereof, in accordance with the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan for
the project area to the full extent of and in accordance with the rights,
powers, and authority of the village, whether derived from the applicable
provisions of the federal or state constitution or statutes, or the village
ordinances. Such undertakings and activities in a project area may include:
      (1)   Acquisition of realty, including the acquisition of air rights;
      (2)   Demolition and removal of buildings and improvements;
      (3)   Installation, construction, or reconstruction of streets,
utilities, parks, playgrounds, and other improvements necessary for carrying
out the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan;
      (4)   Disposition of property for uses in accordance with the urban
renewal or urban redevelopment plan;
      (5)   Encouraging and assisting interested citizens in a private program
of voluntary repair and rehabilitation of buildings or other improvements in
accordance with the urban renewal plan, with or without aid and assistance by
Federal Housing Administration mortgage insurance or special support for
mortgage financing through the Federal National Mortgage Association or similar
organizations;
      (6)   Acquisition of any real property where necessary to eliminate
unhealthful, unsanitary, or unsafe conditions, lessen such lot occupancy or
population density as create those conditions, eliminate uses incompatible with
the general character of a neighborhood and which are detrimental to the public
welfare, or otherwise to remove or prevent the spread of blight or
deterioration, or to provide land for needed public facilities, and disposition
of property, so acquired in accordance with this division, for voluntary repair
and rehabilitation of buildings or other improvements in accordance with the
urban renewal plan;
      (7)   Construction of foundations and platforms necessary for the
appropriate provision of air right sites in accordance with the urban renewal
or urban redevelopment plan; and
      (8)   Acquisition and repair or rehabilitation for guidance purposes, and
resale, of structures which, under the urban renewal plan, are to be repaired
or rehabilitated for dwelling use or related facilities, provided, that there
shall not be acquired for such purposes, in any project area, buildings, which
contain or will contain more than 100 dwelling units, or 5% of the total number
of dwelling units in such area which under the urban renewal plan are to be
repaired or rehabilitated, whichever is the lesser. The URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT
shall not include the construction or improvement by the village of any
building other than municipal buildings, except as provided in division (7)
above.
(1995 Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.04   VILLAGE MANAGER TO SUPERVISE ACTIVITIES.
   The Village Manager is charged with the responsibility of supervising the
urban renewal and urban redevelopment activities of this village, coordinating
the activities of the several officers, employees, commissions, and boards
concerned with such projects and executing on behalf of the village, as its
authorized representative, all applications to the federal government for
grants, loans, and advances.
(1995 Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.05   PREPARATION OF STUDIES AND PLANS.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall with the approval of Council, enter into
such contracts on behalf of the village, with engineers, architects, and other
professional services as may be necessary to provide the necessary inspections,
studies, plans, surveys, and reports in connection with the preparation of the
general neighborhood renewal plan, and in connection with the urban renewal or
redevelopment activities to be undertaken by the village to the extent that
funds have been appropriated therefor. The Planning Commission may itself
conduct such inspections, studies, plans, surveys, and reports.
   (B)   When studies, plans, surveys, and reports pursuant to division (A)
above have been prepared, they shall be submitted to the Council and filed as
provided from time to time.
(1995 Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967; Am. Ord. 10-1967, passed
10-10-1967)
§ 152.06   CONTENTS OF PLANS; SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   Any urban renewal or redevelopment plan hereafter prepared shall be
prepared in such detail as to clearly set forth sufficient information to
permit the Planning Commission to exercise its power of approval or disapproval
under Ohio R.C. § 713.02, and in any event such plans shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   A description of the boundaries of the project area;
      (2)   A land use plan showing the location, character, and extent of
public and private land ownership, utilities, use, and occupancy proposed
within the area;
      (3)   A delineation of areas of land acquisition, demolition, and removal
of structures, or of rehabilitation, conservation, or reconditioning of
existing structures, if any, as may be proposed to be carried out in the
project area;
      (4)   A statement indicating the controls and the use, development and
building restrictions to be placed on the property in the project area to
prevent a recurrence of slum or blighted conditions; and, in addition thereto,
such plan or its supporting documentation shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
         (a)   A report showing the proposed changes, if any, in the Building,
Housing, or Zoning Codes, or maps and street layout, levels, or grades;
         (b)   A statement from the appropriate village official, setting forth
the capability of the village to finance the portion of the project costs to be
contributed by the village; and
         (c)   A statement of the relationship of the plan to such definite
objectives of the village respecting appropriate land uses, improved traffic
conditions and transportation, public utilities, recreation and community
facilities, and other public improvements.
   (B)   A relocation plan shall indicate a feasible method for the temporary
relocation of individuals and families displaced from the project area, and
that there are, or are being provided in the project area, or in other areas
not generally less desirable in regard to public utilities and public
commercial facilities and at rents or prices within the financial means of the
individuals and families to be displaced from the project area, decent, safe,
and sanitary dwellings equal in number to the number of such displaced
individuals and families, and available to them and reasonably accessible to
their places of employment.
(1995 Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.07   ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   When a general neighborhood renewal plan, or an urban renewal, or
urban redevelopment plan and the supporting documentation therefor is filed
with the Council, the Council shall refer such plan and supporting
documentation to the Planning Commission for its review and recommendations,
including the exercise of its power of approval or disapproval under Ohio R.C.
§ 713.02, and its certification as to whether or not the plan is in conformity
with the general plan of the village, by causing a copy of such plan and
supporting documentation to be delivered to the person charged with the
preparation and custody of the record of proceedings of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall submit in writing to Council its
approval or recommendations concerning such plan. The approval of the
Commission shall also constitute its approval of those matters placed under its
jurisdiction by Ohio R.C. § 713.02, except that the recommendations of the
Planning Commission may include a disapproval pursuant to such section. Except
as recommendations or disapprovals are received from the Planning Commission on
or before the thirtieth day after the delivery to the person charged with the
preparation and custody of the record of proceedings of the Planning Commission
of such plan and supporting documentation, the plan shall be conclusively
presumed to have been approved by the Planning Commission.
(1995 Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.08   PUBLIC HEARING AND COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   The Village Council, before approving a general neighborhood renewal
plan, or an urban renewal, or urban redevelopment plan, shall hold a public
hearing on the plan at which an opportunity shall be provided to all persons
interested to be heard, either in person or by counsel, which hearing may be
adjourned from time to time. Notice of the date, time, and place of such
hearing will be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village
once a week for two consecutive weeks on the same day of the week, and at least
seven full days shall elapse between the second publication and the date set
for the public hearing. The notice shall also contain a description of the
project area by its location in relation to highways, streets, watercourses, or
other natural or artificial boundaries, and shall also designate the place at
which the plan, maps, plats, and other materials describing the project area
are and will be available for public inspection.
   (B)   Following the completion of such public hearing, the Council may
either approve or reject the general neighborhood renewal plan, or the urban
renewal or urban redevelopment plan, or make modifications and approve such
plan as modified; provided that, if:
      (1)   The boundaries of the project area are extended to include any land
(except land contained within the right-of-way lines of a dedicated street or
alley) not included in the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan upon which
the public hearing was held pursuant to division (A) hereof, if there is added
a type of urban renewal or redevelopment activity not included in the urban
renewal or urban redevelopment plan upon which the pubic hearing was held
pursuant to division (A) hereof which requires the acquisition of property, or
if there is any change in land use or redevelopment restrictions contained in
the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan upon which the public hearing was
held pursuant to division (A) hereof, a public hearing shall be held on such
urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan as modified prior to the approval,
thereof by the Village Council in accordance with the provisions of division
(A) hereof; and
      (2)   Such modifications are other than in accordance with the
recommendations of the Planning Commission, such general neighborhood renewal
plan, urban renewal plan, or urban redevelopment plan as modified shall be
resubmitted to the Planning Commission for its written approval or
recommendations pursuant to the provisions of §
152.07.
   (C)   When Council wishes to approve a general neighborhood renewal plan, an
urban renewal or redevelopment plan, it shall do so by ordinance passed by not
less than a majority vote, after reading in full on three separate days or
under suspension of rules, provided, that if such plan has not been approved by
the Planning Commission, or if there were any partial disapprovals by or
adverse recommendations of the Planning Commission under Ohio R.C. § 713.02,
not accepted by Council by its modifications of the plan in accordance
therewith, then an affirmative vote of 2/3 of the members of Council shall be
required to pass such ordinance and, to the extent that such disapproval
involves the construction of an improvement or utility within the meaning of
Ohio R.C. § 713.02, the concurrence of the head of the department having
control of the construction of such proposed improvement or utility shall also
be necessary.
   (D)   The ordinance of Council approving a general neighborhood renewal plan
should contain a finding that the plan conforms to the general plan and to the
workable program of the village and such other findings as may be necessary or
desirable, but need not contain the other findings set forth below in division
for approval of urban renewal or redevelopment plans. Such approval of a
general neighborhood renewal plan may be made before or at the same time as the
approval of an urban renewal or redevelopment plan for a project within the
general neighborhood renewal area.
   (E)   The ordinance of Council approving urban renewal or redevelopment plan
shall include the following findings:
      (1)   Specific finding of fact as to the conditions in the project area
which make it a slum, blighted, deteriorated, or deteriorating area, and
findings that the project area is a slum, blighted, deteriorated, or
deteriorating area;
      (2)   That the size and character of the area and the location of
elements of slum, blight, and deterioration in the area make it appropriate for
urban renewal activities;
      (3)   That the proposals for the proper relocation of individuals and
families displaced in carrying out the project in decent, safe, and sanitary
dwellings in conformity with acceptable standards are feasible and can be
reasonably and timely effected to permit the proper prosecution and completion
of the project; and that such dwellings, or dwelling units available, or to be
made available to such displaced individuals and families, are at least equal
in number to the number of displaced individuals and families, are not
generally less desirable in regard to public utilities and public and
commercial facilities than the dwellings of the displaced individuals and
families in the project area, are available at rents or prices within the
financial means of the displaced individuals and families, and are reasonably
accessible to their places of employment;
      (4)   This finding is made only if federal aid is needed. That financial
aid to be provided by the federal government under its contract is necessary to
enable the project to be undertaken in accordance with the plan;
      (5)   That the plan for the project area will afford maximum opportunity
consistent with the sound needs of the community as a whole for the
rehabilitation or redevelopment of the project area by private enterprise;
      (6)   That the plan conforms to the existing general or master plan for
the overall development of the village as prepared by the Planning Commission
pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 713.02;
      (7)   That the plan gives due consideration to the provision of adequate
park and recreational areas and facilities, as may be desirable for
neighborhood improvement, with special consideration for the health, safety,
and welfare of the children residing in the general vicinity of the site
covered by the plan;
      (8)   This finding is made only if there is included in the plan any
provision permitting the new construction of hotels, motels, or other housing
for transient use. That the village has caused to be made a competent
independent analysis of the local supply of transient housing and as a result
thereof determines that there exists in the project area a need for additional
units of such housing;
      (9)   This finding is to be made only if the project area is not
predominantly residential in character and is not to be redeveloped for
predominantly residential use. That the redevelopment of the project area for
predominantly nonresidential uses is necessary for the proper development of
the community;
      (10)   This finding is to be made only where an open space land program
is involved. That the land and the interest in land to be acquired are for the
purpose of preserving such area as open space land and are necessary to orderly
long range development, to curb urban sprawl and the spread of urban blight and
deterioration, to encourage more economical and desirable urban development and
to provide areas for parks, playgrounds, parkways, conservation areas,
watersheds, and to preserve natural resources, and that the area so to be
acquired is of a size and character appropriate for such purposes;
      (11)   This finding is to be made only if federal aid is involved and
clearing is the sole treatment proposed. That the objectives of the urban
renewal plan cannot be achieved through rehabilitation of the urban renewal
area;
      (12)   This finding is to be made only if federal aid is involved and
both clearance and rehabilitation treatment are proposed. That the objectives
of the urban renewal plan cannot be achieved through more extensive
rehabilitation of the urban renewal area;
      (13)   This finding is to be made only if federal aid is involved. That
the United States of America and the Secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development be, and they are, assured of full compliance by the village
with regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
effectuating Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 200a
et seq.; and
      (14)   This finding is to be made only where an educational institution
or a hospital is located in or near the project area and it is desired to
utilize § 112 of the Housing Act of 1949, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1450 et seq.; as
amended. That in addition to the elimination of slums and blight from such
area, the undertaking of an urban renewal or urban redevelopment project in
such area will further promote the public welfare and the proper development of
the community:
         (a)   By making land in such area available for disposition, for uses
in accordance with the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan, to such
educational institution or hospital for redevelopment in accordance with the
uses specified in the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan;
         (b)   By providing, through the redevelopment of the area in
accordance with the urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan, a cohesive
neighborhood environment compatible with the functions and needs of such
educational institution or hospitals; or
         (c)   By any combination of the foregoing.
   (F)   Any documents which were submitted to Council to support findings in
the ordinance should be filed by the Clerk of Council with a copy of the
ordinance.
   (G)   The taking effect of the ordinance approving an urban renewal or
redevelopment plan shall constitute authority to spend moneys of the village
appropriated for carrying out urban renewal or redevelopment activities in
accordance with the plan, as well as the proceeds of bonds or notes issued for
such purpose, and to accept advances, gifts, donations, and grants from the
federal government, the State of Ohio, any entity, instrumentality, or
subdivision of either, or from any other entity, or person for such purpose.
(1995 Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.09   FEDERAL AID CONTRACTS.
   Any contract with a federal agency for loans, advances, grants, or other
federal aid to the village shall be approved by the Director of Legal Services
as to form and legality and, after approval and authorization by ordinance of
Council, shall be executed by the Mayor.
(1995 Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.10   MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   (A)   An approved urban renewal plan may be amended, modified, or changed by
ordinance of Council from time to time, provided, that, if the boundaries of
the project area are extended to include any land (except land contained within
the right-of-way lines of a dedicated street or alley) not previously included
therein, or if there is added a new type of urban renewal activity which
requires the acquisition of property, or if there is any change in the land use
or redevelopment restrictions, or if there is a change in the proposed
location, extent, or character of a public improvement or utility within the
project area, or in any matter directly within the jurisdiction of the Planning
Commission to approve or disapprove under Ohio R.C. § 713.02, or if such
amendment, modification, or change is deemed by Council to be a substantial
change in the urban renewal or redevelopment plan, then all of the proceedings
provided for in §§
152.07 and
152.08 shall be carried out in connection with such amendment, modification, or
change, except that the findings to be made in the ordinance approving the
urban renewal or urban redevelopment plan shall be altered to fit the then
circumstances. The land use, or redevelopment restrictions applicable to any
land previously conveyed by the village may not be amended, modified, or
changed without the consent of the property owner thereto.
   (B)   A general neighborhood renewal plan may be amended, modified, or
changed by ordinance of Council from time to time, provided that any such
amendment, modification, or change shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for its written approval or recommendation pursuant to the
provisions of §
152.07.
(1995 Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.11   EXECUTION OF URBAN RENEWAL PLANS.
   (A)   Acquisition of property. As authorized by Council, the Urban Renewal
Director, with the appropriate advice and assistance of the Director of Legal
Services, shall cause the necessary steps to be taken to acquire the parcels of
land in the project area in accordance with the urban renewal, or redevelopment
plan, including, but not limited to, the negotiation for such parcels,
obtaining appraisals, title examinations and reports, with the Mayor executing
contracts for any of such services and appropriate documents to transfer title
to the village, provided, that in the event appropriation of property is
necessary, Council shall initiate and carry out the necessary proceedings, with
the appropriate assistance of the several officers, employees, boards, and
commissions of the village. Acquisition may take place at any time after
compliance with §§
152.07 and
152.08.
   (B)   Village activities preparing property for disposition. After any
necessary appropriations of village moneys and authorization of expenditures by
ordinances of Council; Council action, where appropriate, to rezone property,
vacate, or dedicate streets, or other public places and provide for the
establishment and preservation of open space are; certification of funds by the
Director of Finance, where appropriate; and preparation of or approval of legal
form of contracts by the Director of Legal Services; the Village Manager shall
make the contracts and cause the purchase of the necessary supplies and
materials and the provision of the necessary supplies and materials and the
provision of the necessary labor for such activities as may be necessary to
carry the urban renewal project, including, but not limited to, the demolition,
rehabilitation, or repair of structures (whether voluntarily by the private
owners thereof or by the village for demonstration purposes in limited
numbers), the removal of pavement, sidewalk, lighting and trees, capping,
removal, and relocation of village-owned utility lines, grading, construction
of site improvements, and supporting facilities and the temporary lease,
rental, or permission to let others use structures, or parcels of land while
owned by the village, relocation activities and the enforcement of any
applicable provisions of law or conforming agreements relative to building,
zoning, platting, and the repair or rehabilitation of land and structures
remaining in private ownership.
   (C)   Disposition of property. The Council may authorize by ordinance the
transfer, lease, or conveyance of any real property in accordance with and for
the purpose of the plan, subject to such lawful terms, conditions,
restrictions, and covenants (including covenants running with the land) to
assist in carrying out the purposes of the plan. All dispositions of real
property shall be at not less than the fair value thereof determined by the
Village Council based on the proposed new uses and restrictions thereof
determined by the Village Council based on the proposed new uses and
restrictions thereon to be imposed under the urban renewal plan by the Village
Council through zoning ordinances, private covenant, or otherwise. Such
determination shall be made only after obtaining independent appraisals of such
fair value on the aforesaid bases, which appraisals shall not be binding on the
village. The manner of disposition shall be prescribed by ordinance, and may be
by negotiation, with or without any competitive bidding, and such competition
and award of a disposition contract may be based on factors other than price
alone. Two weeks publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village shall be sufficient notice for the taking of competitive bids or of the
execution of a disposition contract without competitive bidding. The financial
and legal ability of those proposing to acquire or lease such real property
shall be considered in all dispositions. The Village Manager shall execute, on
behalf of the village, such instruments as may be necessary to transfer, lease,
or convey such real property in the form approved by the Director of Legal
Services and authorized by Council, which form shall include all covenants
running with the land, including any portions of the plan incorporated by
reference, and shall execute any certificates of completion of improvements or
other appropriate instruments, on behalf of the village, that may be necessary
in accordance with any covenants in such instruments of lease or conveyance.
   (D)   Conforming agreement. If the owner of property in the project area is
willing to make the use of his or her property conform to the urban renewal or
redevelopment plan and the Council finds and determines that the acquisition of
the property by the village will not be necessary if so conformed, the Village
Manager, on Council authorization, may enter into a conforming agreement upon
such terms and security as may be authorized by Council. Such agreement may
provide for the acquisition of property on continued failure of the property
owner to keep his or her agreement after notice from the village specifying
such failure.
   (E)   Council action. In the execution of urban renewal, or redevelopment
projects, the Council may authorize, as to any appropriate projects, or parts
of projects, the employment of community improvement corporations, community
redevelopment corporations and metropolitan housing authorities, as defined by
the state statutes, and when authorized by ordinance of Council may grant
leases, make conveyances, and enter into agreements with such corporations
related to appropriate aspects of such projects to the full extent of the
powers possessed by such corporations.
(1995 Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.12   FINANCE.
   (A)   The cost of urban renewal activities may be paid in whole or in part
by the village from appropriate general or special fund or accounts established
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapters 135 and 5705, and the village may accept grants
or gifts of moneys or real personal property from persons, entities,
governments, or taxing authorities to be used for the planning and financing of
such urban renewal activities.
   (B)   All bonds or notes payable from the general credit and taxes of the
village to finance the urban renewal activities shall be issued in accordance
with the applicable provisions of Ohio R.C. Chapter 133. Accounts shall be
maintained for the carrying out of those urban renewal activities being
financed by loans or advances from the federal government separate from any
other village accounts, including village accounts used to carry out any
activities being financed by the village, and no money or real or personal
property shall in any way be pledged as security for the repayment of any
federal loans or advances, except the separately described portion of a project
area set aside for such purpose, together with the proceeds from the sale,
lease, or temporary operation thereof, and federal capital grant moneys earned
in connection therewith in order to avoid violating statutory and
constitutional debt and tax limitations.
(1995 Code, § 152.12) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.13   BUILDING PERMITS.
   After approval of an urban renewal or redevelopment plan by the Village
Council, no building permit shall be issued for the improvement or enlargement
of any existing structure, or for the construction of a new structure, in the
clearance and redevelopment portion of the project area, except that such
permit may be issued for the repair of an existing structure when such repair
is deemed necessary by the Village Manager for the immediate preservation of
the public health and safety, or is required by the redeveloper in accordance
with the redevelopment plan.
(1995 Code, § 152.13) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
§ 152.14   TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   All property of the village, including funds, owned or held by it for
the purposes of this chapter shall be exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an
execution, and no execution or other judicial process shall issue against the
same nor shall judgment against the village be a charge or lien on such
property. However, the provisions of this section shall not apply to or limit
the right of obligees to pursue any remedies for the enforcement of any pledge
or lien given pursuant to this ordinance by the village on its rents, fees,
grants, or revenues from the urban renewal or redevelopment projects.
   (B)   The property of the village, acquired or held for the purposes of this
chapter on January 1 of any year, is declared to be public property used
exclusively for essential public and governmental purposes and such property
shall be exempt from all taxes of the village, county, state, or any taxing
authority thereof. However, such tax exemptions shall terminate when the
village sells, leases, or otherwise disposes of such property in a project area
to a purchaser or lessee which is not a person, corporation, partnership, or
other association entitled to tax exemption with respect to such property.
(1995 Code, § 152.14) (Ord. 9-1967, passed 10-10-1967)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.20   OFFICERS TO ADMINISTER PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Village Manager is authorized and directed to appoint the
following officers and personnel as required for the proper administration of
the village's urban renewal program:
      (1)   A Director of Urban Renewal;
      (2)   Director of Relocation and Rehabilitation; and
      (3)   A program secretary.
   (B)   The salary ranges shall be set by Council from time to time.
   (C)   Bonds shall be posted by the above named directors in the amount of
$5,000, and in the amount of $1,000 by the program secretary.
(1995 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. 68-6, passed 3-4-1968)
§ 152.21   RELOCATION SUPERVISOR.
   The Urban Renewal Department of the village shall have a relocation
supervisor, who shall receive a salary as set by Council from time to time.
(1995 Code, § 152.21) (Ord. 70-9, passed 3-2-1970)
§ 152.22   COORDINATOR OF SOCIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The part-time position of Coordinator of Social Services is
established for the assistance (two hours per day) of urban renewal residents
through the coordination of services available to the community, as shall prove
beneficial towards the completion of the urban renewal program.
   (B)   Compensation for this position shall be set by Council from time to
time and charged to the urban renewal fund as an administrative expense.
(1995 Code, § 152.22) (Ord. 68-21, passed 11-18-1968)
§ 152.23   OTHER PERSONNEL.
   Other employees in the Urban Renewal Department may be authorized by Village
Council at such salaries and fringe benefits as determined from time to time by
Council.
(1995 Code, § 152.23)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Preamble
   
153.003   Short title
   
153.004   Definitions
   
153.005   Establishment and control
   
153.006   Establishment of districts
   
153.007   Incorporation of map
   
153.008   Replacement of official zoning map
   
153.009   Boundary tolerances
   
153.010   Zoning of vacated areas
   
153.011   Conflict and other laws
   
153.012   Zoning of annexed areas
P-1 Public Land District
   
153.020   Intended purposes
   
153.021   Use regulations
R-1 Low Density Residential District
   
153.030   Intended purposes
   
153.031   Use regulations
   
153.032   Height regulations
   
153.033   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.034   Building size
   
153.035   Landscaping
   
153.036   Off-street parking
   
153.037   Signs
R-1B Low Density Residential District
   
153.045   Intended purposes
   
153.046   Use regulations
   
153.047   Height regulations
   
153.048   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.049   Building size
   
153.050   Landscaping
   
153.051   Off-street parking
   
153.052   Signs
R-2 Medium Density Residential District
   
153.060   Intended purposes
   
153.061   Use regulations
   
153.062   Height regulations
   
153.063   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.064   Building size
   
153.065   Landscaping
   
153.066   Off-street parking
   
153.067   Signs
R-3 High Density Residential District
   
153.075   Intended purposes
   
153.076   Use regulations
   
153.077   Height regulations
   
153.078   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.079   Landscaping
   
153.080   Off-street parking
   
153.081   Signs
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
   
153.090   Intended purposes
   
153.091   Use regulations
   
153.092   Height regulations
   
153.093   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.094   Landscaping
   
153.095   Off-street parking and loading
   
153.096   Signs
   
153.097   Special conditions
District C-2 Highway Oriented Commercial District
   
153.105   Intended purposes
   
153.106   Use regulations
   
153.107   Height regulations
   
153.108   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.109   Landscaping
   
153.110   Off-street parking and loading
   
153.111   Signs
   
153.112   Special conditions
M-1 Light Manufacturing District
   
153.120   Intended purposes
   
153.121   Use regulations
   
153.122   Height regulations
   
153.123   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.124   Landscaping and screening
   
153.125   Off-street parking
   
153.126   Signs
M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District
   
153.135   Intended purposes
   
153.136   Use regulations
   
153.137   Height regulations
   
153.138   Area, width, and yard regulations
   
153.139   Landscaping and screening
   
153.140   Off-street parking
   
153.141   Signs
Special Provisions
   
153.150   Modification of front yard requirements
   
153.151   Dwellings in industrial districts
   
153.152   Projections into required yards
   
153.153   Conversion of dwellings
   
153.154   Corner vision obstruction
   
153.155   Height limitation of fences and walls
   
153.156   Accessory buildings
   
153.157   More than one principal structure
   
153.158   Exceptions to height regulations
   
153.159   Structures to have access
   
153.160   Major recreational equipment
   
153.161   Parking and storing of certain vehicles
   
153.162   Topsoil
   
153.163   Signs
   
153.164   Rail leads
Nonconforming Buildings, Uses, and Lots
   
153.170   Continuation
   
153.171   Extension
   
153.172   Change
   
153.173   Restoration
   
153.174   Abandonment
   
153.175   Nonconforming signs
   
153.176   Nonconforming to area and width regulations; unusual dimensions
   
153.177   Subdivisions previously approved
Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading
   
153.185   Scope of regulations
   
153.186   Existing parking facilities
   
153.187   Permanency of spaces provided
   
153.188   Off-street parking
   
153.189   Off-street loading
Planned Unit Development
   
153.200   Intent and purpose
   
153.201   Development plan
   
153.202   General conditions of preliminary plan
   
153.203   Specific condition of final plans
   
153.204   Time limit for construction; reversion to former zoning
classification
Administration
   
153.210   Office of Building Inspector
   
153.211   Building permit
   
153.212   Occupancy permits
   
153.213   Certificates for dwelling accessory buildings
   
153.214   Application for certificates
   
153.215   Issuance or refusal of permits
   
153.216   Special exceptions permits
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.225   Creation and membership
   
153.226   Procedure
   
153.227   Appeals
   
153.228   Public hearings
   
153.229   Power of Board
   
153.230   Applications for variances
   
153.231   Standards for variances
   
153.232   Procedures and requirements for appeals of variances
   
153.233   Certificates of the Board
   
153.234   Expiration of variances
   
153.235   Appeal to court
Amendments, Interpretation, and Vested Right
   
153.240   Power of amendment
   
153.241   Interpretation
   
153.242   Vested right
   
153.997   Notice of violation
   
153.998   Remedies
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and restrict the location and use
of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, and for
public and semipublic or other specified uses; and to regulate and limit the
height and bulk of buildings and other structures; to regulate and to determine
the size of yards, courts, and open spaces; to regulate and limit the density
of population; and for such purposes to divide the village into districts and
establishing the boundaries thereof; providing for changes in the regulations,
restrictions, and boundaries of such districts; defining certain terms used
herein; providing for enforcement; establishing a Zoning Board of Appeals; and
imposing penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 153.001) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.002   PREAMBLE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by Ohio R.C. Chapter 713, and for the
purpose of promoting and protecting the public health, safety, peace, morals,
comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the village by
protecting and conserving the character and social and economic stability of
the residential, commercial, industrial, and other use areas; by securing the
most appropriate use of land; providing adequate light, air, and reasonable
access; and facilitating adequate and economical provision of transportation,
water, sewer, schools, recreation, and other public requirements, and by other
means all in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan; this code is adopted.
(1995 Code, § 153.002) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.003   SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Code.
(1995 Code, § 153.003) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.004   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY.
      (1)   An ACCESSORY USE:
         (a)   Is a use conducted on the same zoning lot as the principal use
to which it is related (whether located within the same or an accessory
building or other structure, or as an accessory use of land), except that,
where specifically provided in the applicable district regulations, accessory
off- street parking or loading need not be located on the same zoning lot; and
         (b)   Is a use which is clearly incidental to, and customarily found
in connection with, such principal use; and
         (c)   Is either in the same ownership as such principal use, or is
operated and maintained on the same zoning lot substantially for the benefit or
convenience of the owners, occupants, employees, customers, or visitors of the
principal use.
      (2)   When ACCESSORY is used in the text, it shall have the same meaning
as accessory use.
      (3)   An ACCESSORY USE includes:
         (a)   Living or sleeping accommodations for servants;
         (b)   Living or sleeping accommodations for caretakers in connection
with any use;
         (c)   Living or sleeping accommodations for employees in connection
with commercial or manufacturing uses;
         (d)   Keeping of domestic animals, but not for sale or hire. A
commercial stable or kennel is not an ACCESSORY USE;
         (e)   Swimming pools not located within a building, provided that:
            1.   The use of such pools shall be restricted to occupants of the
principal use and guests for whom no admission or membership fees are charged;
            2.   If accessory to a nonresidential use, the edge of the pool
shall be located not less than 50 feet from any lot line;
            3.    If accessory to a residential use, the edge of the pool shall
be located not less than ten feet from any lot line, and in the event that such
pool is located less than 50 feet from any rear lot line or side lot line, it
shall be screened by a continuous fence, supplemented with a strip of densely
planted trees or shrubs at least four feet high at the time of planting, along
such rear lot line and that portion of any side lot line adjacent to such pool;
            4.   Illumination of such pools shall be limited to underwater
lighting; and
            5.   Swimming pool clubs are not accessory uses.
         (f)   Domestic or agricultural storage in a barn, shed, tool room, or
similar building or other structure;
         (g)   Home occupations;
         (h)   Incinerators;
         (i)   In connection with commercial or manufacturing uses, the storage
of goods normally carried in stock, used in, or produced by such uses, unless
the storage is expressly prohibited under the applicable district regulations;
         (j)   In connection with commercial and manufacturing uses, incidental
repairs, unless expressly prohibited under the applicable district regulations;
         (k)    The removal for sale of sod, loam, clay, sand, gravel, or stone
in connection with the construction of a building or other structure on the
same zoning lot, or in connection with the regrading of a zoning lot, but in
the latter case not below the legal street grade;
         (l)   Accessory off-street parking spaces, open or enclosed;
         (m)   Accessory off-street loading berths;
         (n)   Accessory signs;
         (o)   Accessory radio or television towers; and
         (p)   Accessory activities when conducted underground as part of the
operation of railroad passenger terminals, such as switching, storage,
maintenance, or servicing of trains.
   ALTERATIONS, INCIDENTAL, or TO ALTER INCIDENTALLY.
      (1)   Changes or replacements in the nonstructural parts of a building or
other structure, without limitation to the following examples:
         (a)   Alteration of interior partitions to improve livability in a
nonconforming residential building, provided that no additional dwelling units
are created thereby;
         (b)   A minor addition on the exterior of a residential building, such
as an open porch;
         (c)   Alteration of interior nonloadbearing partitions in all other
types of buildings or other structures; or
         (d)   Replacement of, or minor changes in, the capacity of utility
pipes, ducts, or conduits.
      (2)   Changes or replacements in the structural parts of a building or
other structure, limited to the following examples or others of similar
character or extent:
         (a)   Making windows or doors in exterior walls;
         (b)   Replacement of building facades; and
         (c)   Strengthening the loadbearing capacity, in not more than 10% of
the total floor area, to permit the accommodation of a specialized unit of
machinery or equipment.
      (3)   To ALTER INCIDENTALLY is to make an incidental alteration.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT. A room or group of rooms in an apartment house designed for and
occupied exclusively as a residence for only one family.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building designed for and occupied exclusively by three
or more families living independent of one another.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   A building or other structure or a tract of land used exclusively
for the storage and sale of gasoline or other motor fuels and for any uses
accessory thereto. The sale of lubricants, accessories, or supplies, the
lubrication of motor vehicles, the minor adjustment or repair of motor vehicles
with hand tools only, or the occasional washing of motor vehicles are permitted
accessory uses.
      (2)   A public parking lot or public parking garage is not a permitted
accessory use. For the purposes of this definition, ownership of a zoning lot
to be used for an AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION shall be deemed to include a lease
of not less than ten years duration. In regard to the location of service
station equipment, a pump, light stand, air tower, water outlet, or similar
installation may be placed within the required front yard, but no closer to the
curb line than 20 feet.
   BASEMENT or CELLAR. A story or portion of a story partly below curb level,
with at least 1/2 of its height measured from floor to ceiling below curb
level. On through lots the curb level nearest to a story or portion of a story
shall be used to determine whether such story or portion of a story is a
basement.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by:
      (1)   Streets;
      (2)   Public parks;
      (3)   Railroad rights-of-way, when located at or above ground level but
not including sidings or spurs in the same ownership as the zoning lot; or
      (4)   Corporate boundary lines of the village.
   BOARDING HOUSE or ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling, not a single-family or two-
family dwelling, apartment house, or a hotel, providing lodging with or without
meals, and having lodging accommodations for less than ten guests.
   BUFFER AREA. A strip of land in a nonresidential district at the point where
the nonresidential district touches a residential district. Yard requirements
may be included in the buffer area requirements.
   BUILDING.
      (1)   Any structure which:
         (a)   Is permanently affixed to the land;
         (b)   Has one or more floors and a roof; and
         (c)   Is bounded by either open area or the lot lines of a zoning lot.
      (2)   A BUILDING shall not include such structures as billboards, fences,
or radio towers, or structures with interior surfaces not normally accessible
for human use, such as gas holders, tanks, smoke stacks, grain elevators, coal
bunkers, oil cracking towers, or similar structures.
      (3)   A BUILDING may, for example, consist of a one-family detached
residence, a two-family residence, either a row house or a series of row houses
(depending on location of lot lines), a row of garden apartments with
individual entrances, or an apartment house; a single store or a row of stores
(depending on location of lot lines); or a single factory or loft.
         (a)   DETACHED. A building which has no party wall.
         (b)   SEMIDETACHED. A building which has only one party wall in common
with another building.
         (c)   ATTACHED. A building which has two party walls in common with
adjacent buildings.
   BUILDING, MIXED. A building in a commercial district used partly for
residential use and partly for community facility or commercial use.
   BUILDING AREA. The aggregate of the maximum horizontal cross section areas
of all buildings on a lot above ground level, measured at the greatest outside
dimensions, excluding steps, cornices, eaves, gutters, and patios, but
including breezeways and porches.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. A building's vertical measurements from the mean level of
the ground abutting the building to a point midway between the highest and
lowest points of the roof, excluding chimneys, spires, towers, elevator
penthouses, tanks, flagpoles, aerials, stacks, beacons, and similar projections
of the building, but in no case shall any projection above the measured height
of the building exceed 85 feet.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the right-of-way line at a distance
therefrom equal to the depth of the front yard required for the district in
which the lot is located.
   CLINIC. An institution providing diagnostic, therapeutic, or preventive out-
patient treatment by a group of doctors in the same building.
   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, science, literature, politics, or the like, but
not for profit.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, and bounded on at least
two sides by a building. A COURT extending to the front yard or front lot line
or to the rear yard or rear lot line is an OUTER COURT. Any other COURT is an
INNER COURT.
   CURB LINE. A line sometimes containing a raised concrete structure of not
more than six inches located on either edge of the cartway but within the
right-of-way line.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated area of the village within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than
within a building or structure, regardless of whether self-servicing is
involved.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential building or residential
portion of building, which are arranged, designed, used, or intended for use by
one or more persons living together and maintaining a common household, and
which include lawful cooking space and lawful sanitary facilities reserved for
the occupants thereof.
      (1)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building on a lot designed and used exclusively
as a residence for three or more families living independently of one another.
      (2)   ROW HOUSE. A semi-detached building on a lot designed for and
occupied exclusively as a residence for only one family and having a party wall
in common with an adjacent single-family residence.
      (3)   SINGLE-FAMILY. A building on a lot designed and occupied
exclusively as a residence for one family.
      (4)   TWO-FAMILY. A building on a lot designed and occupied exclusively
as a residence for two families.
   ENLARGEMENT or TO ENLARGE. An addition to the floor area of an existing
building, an increase in the size of any other structure, or an increase in
that portion of a tract of land occupied by an existing use. To ENLARGE is to
make an enlargement.
   ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved on, or any
physical operations on the premises required for the construction. Excavation,
fill, drainage, and the like, shall be considered a part of the erection.
   EXTENSION or TO EXTEND. An increase in the amount of existing floor area
used for an existing use, within an existing building. To EXTEND is to make an
extension.
   FAMILY. One or two persons or parents, with their direct lineal descendants
and adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof), together
with not more than two persons not so related, living together in the whole or
part of a dwelling unit comprising a single housekeeping unit. Every additional
group of two or less persons living in such housekeeping unit shall be
considered a separate family for the purpose of this chapter.
   FLOOR AREA. For the purposes of computing the minimum allowable floor area
in a residential dwelling unit, the term FLOOR AREA shall mean the sum of the
horizontal areas of each story of the building measured from the exterior faces
of the exterior walls. The FLOOR AREA MEASUREMENT is exclusive of areas of
basements, unfinished attics, attached garages, breezeways, and unenclosed
porches.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. For the purposes of computing parking, that area used
for, or intended to be used for, the sale of merchandise or services or for use
to serve patrons, clients, or customers. Such floor area which is used or
intended to be used principally for the storage or processing of merchandise,
or for utilities, shall be excluded from this computation of USABLE FLOOR AREA.
Measurement of floor area shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the
several floors of the building measured from the interior faces of the exterior
walls. For the purposes of computing parking for those uses not enclosed within
a building, the area used for the sale of merchandise, display of merchandise,
or area used to serve patrons, or clients shall be measured to determine
necessary parking spaces.
   GARAGE.
      (1)   PRIVATE. A building accessory to a single-family or two-family
dwelling for the storage of motor vehicles owned and used by the owner, or
tenant, of the lot on which it is erected.
      (2)   PUBLIC. A building used for the storage of more than four motor
vehicles. Repairing and servicing of vehicles may be carried on in conjunction
with the primary function of vehicular storage.
   GRADE. The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of the building. The building grade shall be
the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished
grade is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the grade shall be the
average elevation of the ground for each face of the building.
   GREENBELT. A strip of land of definite width and location reserved for
planting of shrubs or trees to serve as an obscuring screen or buffer strip in
carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   An accessory use which:
         (a)   Is clearly incidental to or secondary to the residential use of
a dwelling unit or rooming unit;
         (b)   Is carried on within a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or accessory
building by one or more occupants of such dwelling unit or rooming unit, except
that, in connection with the practice of a profession, one person not residing
in such dwelling unit or rooming unit may be employed; and
         (c)   Occupies not more than 25% of the total floor area of such
dwelling unit or rooming unit and in no event more than 500 square feet of
floor area.
      (2)   In connection with the operation of a HOME OCCUPATION it shall not
be permitted:
         (a)   To sell articles produced elsewhere than on the premises;
         (b)   To have exterior displays, or a display of goods visible from
the outside;
         (c)   To store materials or products outside of a principal or
accessory building or other structure;
         (d)   To display, in an R-1 or R-2 District, a nameplate or other sign
except as permitted in connection with the practice of a profession;
         (e)   To make external structural alterations which are not customary
in residential buildings; and
         (f)   To produce offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, or other
particulate matter, odorous matter, heat, humidity, glare, or other
objectionable effects.
      (3)   HOME OCCUPATIONS include:
         (a)   Fine art studios;
         (b)   Professional offices; and
         (c)   Teaching of not more than four pupils simultaneously, or, in the
case of musical instruction, of not more than a single pupil at a time.
      (4)   However, HOME OCCUPATIONS shall not include:
         (a)   Advertising or public relations agencies;
         (b)   Barber shops;
         (c)   Beauty parlors;
         (d)   Commercial stables or kennels;
         (e)   Depilatory, electrolysis, or similar offices;
         (f)   Interior decorators' offices or workshops;
         (g)   Real estate or insurance offices; and
         (h)   Stockbrokers' offices.
   HOSPITAL, GENERAL. An institution providing health services primarily for
in-patient medical or surgical care of the sick or injured and including
related facilities, such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
   HOTEL, APARTMENT.
      (1)   A building or part of a building in which:
         (a)   The dwelling units or rooming units are used primarily for
permanent occupancy;
         (b)   One or more common entrances serve all such units; and
         (c)   One or more of the following services are provided of maid,
telephone, desk, or bellboy service, or the furnishing of laundering of linens.
      (2)   Restaurants, cocktail lounges, or indoor swimming pools are
permitted accessory uses, provided that in residence districts, such facilities
shall be accessible only through the lobby and there shall be no signs except
as permitted by the applicable district regulations. Public banquet halls,
ballrooms, or meeting rooms are not permitted accessory uses.
   HOTEL, TRANSIENT.
      (1)   A building or part of a building in which:
         (a)   Living or sleeping accommodations are used primarily for
transient occupancy, and may be rented on a daily basis;
         (b)   One or more common entrances serve all such living or sleeping
units; and
         (c)   Is provided 24-hour desk service, in addition to one or more of
the following services of maid, telephone, or bellboy service, or the
furnishing of laundering of linens.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses include restaurants, cocktail lounges,
public banquet halls, ballrooms, or meeting rooms.
   INCIDENTAL ALTERATIONS. See ALTERATIONS, INCIDENTAL.
   JUNK. The miscellaneous waste material resulting from housekeeping,
mercantile enterprises, trades, manufacturing and offices, including ashes, tin
cans, glass, scrap metals, rubber, paper, and rags.
   JUNK YARDS. An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, or disassembled, or handled.
Junk shall include, but not be limited to rubbish, scrap iron and other metals,
paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile
wrecking yards and includes any area of more than 200 square feet for storage,
keeping or abandonment of junk, but does not include uses established entirely
within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises on which three or more dogs or cats
are either permanently or temporarily boarded.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or group
of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and
unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or to be occupied, by a main building or a
group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for the principal
use and uses accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as required
under the provisions of this chapter. A LOT may or may not be specifically
designated as such on public records. The word LOT includes the word PLOT or
PARCEL.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the office of the County Recorder or in common use
by village or county officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any
part of such parcel held in record ownership separate from that of the
remainder thereof.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle of two adjacent sides at the
intersection of the two streets is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting on a
curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the two points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended, form an interior angle or less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any interior lot having frontages on two more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all sides of those lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, the line separating
the lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, or double frontage lot,
is that line separating the lot from that street which is designated as the
front street in the plat and in the application for a building permit or zoning
compliance permit.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot lines other than the front lot line or rear
lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a side street lot
line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is an interior
side lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the two points where the building line, or setback intersects the side lot
lines.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street which is intended to serve as a large
volume trafficway for both the immediate village area and the region beyond,
and designated as a freeway, regional arterial, primary arterial or secondary
arterial on the Comprehensive Plan.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle designed, used, or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance on the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. Any plot of ground on which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located.
   MOTEL. A building used for the purpose of furnishing meals and lodging to
the transient public and (having lodging accommodations for ten or more paying
families or individuals) having off-street parking provided contiguous to the
lodging accommodations.
   NONCONFORMING. A lawful building, use, or lot, which by reason of design,
size or use does not conform with the requirements of the district, or
districts, in which it is located as designated by this chapter.
   NURSING HOME. A building to house and within which services are provided for
ill and aged persons.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles, for maneuvering so as to provide access for
entrance and exit for the parking of more than two automobiles.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, exclusive of drives,
driveways, aisles, or entrances giving access thereto, and fully accessible for
the storage or parking of permitted vehicles.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A parcel or tract of land, initially under single
ownership or control, which contains two or more principal buildings and one or
more principal uses, planned and constructed as a unified development, and
where certain regulations of this chapter for the district where it is located
are modified. A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT requires a special use permit issued in
accordance with procedures set forth in this chapter.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, or corporation, municipal department,
board, or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal,
state, or municipal regulations to the public, gas, steam, electricity, sewage
disposal, communication, telegraph, transportation, or water.
   RESERVOIR PARKING. Those off-street parking spaces allocated to automobiles
awaiting entrance to a particular establishment.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The dividing line between a lot and a public street,
legally open or officially plotted by the village, county, or state, or over
which the owners or tenants of two or more lots held in single or separate
ownership have the right-of-way.
   SIGN. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs, or
trademarks by which anything is made known such as are used to show an
individual, firm, profession, or business, and are visible to the general
public.
   SINGLE AND SEPARATE OWNERSHIP. The ownership of a lot by one or more
persons, partnerships, or corporations which ownership is separate and distinct
from that of any abutting or adjoining use.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. Permission or approval granted by the Council in
accordance with §
153.216, hereof in situations where provision thereof is made by the terms of
this chapter.
   STORY. That part of a building (except a mezzanine) included between the
surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor
above, then the ceiling next above. A STORY thus defined shall not be counted
as a story when more than 50% by cubic content is below the height level of the
adjoining ground.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   TOURIST HOME. A building containing a single dwelling unit and guest rooms
offered to the public for compensation and catering primarily to the public
traveling by motor vehicles.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING OR USE. A structure or use permitted by the Zoning Board
of Appeals to exist during periods of construction of the main building or use,
or for special events.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged, or
intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to the main use of a lot and used for
purposes clearly incidental to those of the main use.
   USE, MAIN. The principal use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   VARIANCE. Permission or approval granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals in
accordance with §
153.229(B), hereof, constituting a modification of, or deviation from the exact
provisions of this chapter as applied to a special property.
   WALL or FENCE. An obscuring structure of definite height and location to
serve as an obscuring screen in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   YARDS. The area around the inner periphery of each lot in which no building
or structure shall be erected. The size of such area is determined by the
distance from the property lines and right-of-way lines set forth in the
various zoning districts to the main building on the lot exclusive of steps,
overhanging eaves, gutters, or cornices.
      (1)   FRONT. The minimum required open space, extending the full width of
the lot from the right-of-way line to the nearest point on the nearest building
or structure.
      (2)   REAR. The minimum required open space extending the full width of
the building and extending back from the rear lot line to the nearest point on
the nearest building.
      (3)   SIDE. The minimum required open space extending the full depth of
the lot and extending from the side lot line to the nearest point of the main
building.
   ZONING LOT.
      (1)   Either:
         (a)   A lot of record existing on the effective date of this chapter
or any applicable subsequent amendment thereto;
         (b)   A tract of land, either unsubdivided or consisting of two or
more contiguous lots of record, located within a single block, which, on the
effective date of this chapter or any applicable subsequent amendment thereto,
was in single ownership; or
         (c)   A tract of land, located within a single block, which at the
time of filing for a building permit (or, if no building permit is required, at
the time of filing for a certificate of occupancy), is designated by its owner
or developer as a tract all of which is to be used, developed, or built on as a
unit under single ownership.
      (2)   A ZONING LOT therefore may or may not coincide with a lot as shown
on the official tax maps of the village, or on any recorded subdivision plat or
deed.
      (3)   A ZONING LOT may be subdivided into two or more zoning lots,
provided that all resulting zoning lots and all buildings thereon shall comply
with all of the applicable provisions of this chapter. If such ZONING LOT,
however, is occupied by a noncomplying building, such ZONING LOT may be
subdivided provided such subdivision does not create a new noncompliance or
increase the degree of noncompliance of such building.
(1995 Code, § 153.004) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.005   ESTABLISHMENT AND CONTROL.
   (A)   New uses. In all districts, all buildings, or structures erected
hereafter, all uses of land, buildings, or structures established hereafter,
all structural alteration, enlargement, or relocation of existing buildings, or
structures occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this
chapter which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such building,
structure, uses, or land shall be located.
   (B)   Existing uses. In all districts, after the effective date of this
chapter, and except as otherwise provided in §§
153.200 et seq.:
      (1)   The existing use of any existing building or other structure may be
continued, changed, or extended;
      (2)   The use of any existing tract of land may be continued, changed, or
enlarged; or
      (3)   Any existing building or other structure may be enlarged, altered,
converted, reconstructed, or relocated only in accordance with the use, bulk,
and all other applicable regulations of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 153.005) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.006   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter, the
following districts are established:
Public Lands
P-1 Public Lands
Residential Districts
R-1 Low Density Residential District
R-2 Medium Density Residential District
R-3 High Density Residential District
Commercial Districts
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
C-2 Central Commercial District
C-3 Highway Oriented Commercial District
Manufacturing Districts
M-1 Light Manufacturing District
M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District
 
(1995 Code, § 153.006) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.007   INCORPORATION OF MAP.
   (A)   The locations and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are shown on the zoning map, which is incorporated into the provisions
of this Zoning Code and which map in its entirety, including all amendments
thereto, shall be as much a part of this resolution as if fully set forth and
described herein.
   (B)   The zoning map, and amendments thereto, shall be maintained by the
Village Clerk.
      (1)   Unless shown otherwise, the boundaries of the districts are lot
lines, the centerlines of streets, alleys, roads, or such lines extended, and
the limits of the village.
      (2)   Where, due to the scale, lack of detail, or illegibility of the
zoning map accompanying this chapter, there is any uncertainty, contradiction,
or conflict as to the intended location of any district boundaries shown
thereon, interpretation concerning the exact location of district boundary
lines shall be determined on written application to, or on its own motion, by
the Zoning Board of Appeals, after recommendation by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning
map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after
the amendment has been approved by the Village Council. No amendment to this
chapter which involves matter portrayed on the official zoning map shall become
effective until after such change and entry has been made on the map.
   (D)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
chapter. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map
which shall be located in the Village Clerk's office shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings,
and other structures in the village.
(1995 Code, § 153.007) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.008   REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost,
or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Village Council may by resolution adopt a new official zoning
map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official
zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior
official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending
the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof.
(1995 Code, § 153.008) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.009   BOUNDARY TOLERANCES.
   Where a district boundary line divides a lot held in single and separate
ownership at the effective date of this chapter, the regulations applicable to
the less restricted district shall extend over the portion of the lot in the
more restricted district a distance of not more than 50 feet beyond the
district boundary line, provided that full use is made of the less restricted
area before the extension into the more restricted area.
(1995 Code, § 153.009) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.010   ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way within the village shall be
vacated, such street, alley, or other public way or portion thereof shall
automatically be classified in the same zone districts as the property to which
it attaches.
(1995 Code, § 153.010) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.011   CONFLICT AND OTHER LAWS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the intended purposes.
Where the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions than those of
any statute, other ordinance, or regulation, the provisions of this chapter
shall be controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, or
regulation impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of
such statute, other ordinance, or regulation shall be controlling.
(1995 Code, § 153.011) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.012   ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the village shall immediately on such annexation be
classified as an R-1 Low Density Residential District until a zoning map for
that area has been adopted by the Village Council. The Planning Commission
shall recommend appropriate zoning for such area within three months after the
matter is referred to it by the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 153.012) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
P-1 PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT
§ 153.020   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   This district is intended to identify and preserve public lands and open
spaces as well as to preserve privately owned reservoir sites from encroachment
by intensive uses that will destroy the open character of such sites.
(1995 Code, § 153.020) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.021    USE REGULATIONS.
   The following uses are permitted, so long as the use does not require the
erection of a structure intended for year around habitation.
   (A)   Public parks, playgrounds and recreational areas, and private
recreational developments.
   (B)   Public elementary and secondary schools.
   (C)   Public or semipublic neighborhood and community and recreational
centers held in nonprofit ownership.
   (D)   Buffer strips established as transition areas which have been other
use areas.
   (E)   Municipal services buildings and public administrative offices.
   (F)   Buildings and structures accessory to the above uses.
   (G)   All uses other than those permitted above are prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 153.021) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.030   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   (A)   The general character of these residential districts is to consist of
single-family detached dwellings, set on large building lots. Nonresidential
uses would be restricted to those community facilities which:
      (1)   May appropriately be located in residential areas to serve
educational needs or to provide other essential services for the residents;
      (2)   May appropriately be located in residential areas to provide
recreational, religious, health, and other essential services for residents;
      (3)   Can perform their activities more effectively in a residential
environment, unaffected by adjacent industrial or general services uses; and
      (4)   Do not create significant objectionable influences in residential
areas.
   (B)   In R-1 Low Density Residential Districts, the following regulations in
§
153.031 shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 153.030) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.031   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or
occupied, for any of the following purposes and no other.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
   (B)   Special exception.
      (1)   Churches, rectories or parish houses.
      (2)   Clubs, except:
         (a)   Clubs, the chief activity of which is a service predominantly
carried on as a business;
         (b)   Noncommercial outdoor swimming pool clubs; or
         (c)   Any other noncommercial clubs with outdoor swimming pools
located less than 50 feet from any lot line.
      (3)   Community centers.
      (4)   Health centers (clinics).
      (5)   Libraries, museums, or noncommercial art galleries.
      (6)   Medical offices or group medical centers, including the practice of
dentistry or osteopathy, limited to a location below the level of the first
story ceiling, except that in multiple dwellings (permitted only in R-
3 Residential District), such uses may be located on the floor, if separate
access to the outside is provided.
      (7)   Monasteries, convents, or novitiates.
      (8)   Municipal facilities and public utility uses directly related to
and necessary for services within the district or village.
      (9)   Nonprofit or voluntary hospitals or related hospital facilities
including animal hospitals.
      (10)   Philanthropic or nonprofit institutions with sleeping
accommodations, including nursing homes or sanitariums, provided that not more
than 25% of the floor area shall be used for central office purposes.
      (11)   Proprietary nursing homes or sanitariums.
      (12)   Radio and television transmitting stations and towers may be
erected and used by federally licensed operators, including amateur radio
operators ancillary to their private residences.
      (13)   Welfare centers.
      (14)   Cemeteries.
      (15)   Outdoor tennis courts or ice skating rinks, provided that all
lighting shall be directed away from nearby residential zoning lots.
      (16)   Public parks or playgrounds or private parks.
(1995 Code, § 153.031) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.032   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For any dwelling, 28 feet, not exceeding 2-1/2 stories;
   (B)   For any building accessory to any dwelling use, 14 feet, not exceeding
one story; and
   (C)   For any other nondwelling building or other structure, 28 feet, except
that such height may be increased to a maximum of 65 feet, provided that for
every foot of height in excess of 28 feet, there shall be added to each yard
requirement one corresponding foot or width or depth.
(1995 Code, § 153.032) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.033   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width.
      (1)   A lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet, and a lot width of
not less than 60 feet at the building line shall be provided for every building
or other structure erected or used for any use permitted in this district,
except that in the case of a use set forth in §
153.031(B)(10), the minimum lot area and width requirements may be reduced when
authorized as a special exception.
      (2)   Each permitted building or structure other than a single-family
detached dwelling and accessory building, shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 24,000 square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than 200 feet.
   (B)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard between the building line and
the highway and street right-of-way lines as follows:
      (1)   On existing four lane federal or state highways, a distance of 60
feet;
      (2)   On existing two-lane federal or state highways, a distance of 75
feet;
      (3)   All county highways, a distance of 50 feet; and
      (4)   All other streets, a distance of 30 feet.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 12 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than six feet.
      (2)   On each corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 12 feet, and the side yard
not abutting the street having a width of not less than six feet.
      (3)   On any lot, in any side yard not abutting the street, a detached
private garage may be erected and maintained within the rear quarter of the lot
if not closer to the side lot line than six feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of which
shall be not less than 30 feet, except that an accessory use structure may be
erected within the rear yard not closer to the property line than ten feet.
   (E)   Building coverage. Not more than 25% of the area of any lot shall be
occupied by buildings.
(1995 Code, § 153.033) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.034   BUILDING SIZE.
   No building shall be erected for residential purposes having ground floor
area of less than 1,200 square feet, without basement, and 1,000 square feet
with basement, if a single story dwelling, or a ground floor area of less than
800 square feet, with basement if more than one story, exclusive of unenclosed
porches, terraces, and garages.
(1995 Code, § 153.034) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.035   LANDSCAPING.
   One 2-1/2 inch caliper deciduous tree for every 30 feet of street frontage
or portion thereof shall be planted in (any section of) the front yard of every
lot and a minimum of five foundation plantings, two upright, and three
spreaders.
(1995 Code, § 153.035) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.036   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking requirements will be in accordance with the provisions
set forth in §§
153.185 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 153.036) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.037   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.037) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
R-1B LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.045   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   (A)   The general character of these residential districts is to consist of
single-family detached dwellings, set on lots as originally platted, in the R-
1B areas. Nonresidential uses would be restricted to those community facilities
which:
      (1)   May appropriately be located in residential areas to serve
educational needs or to provide other essential services for the residents;
      (2)   May appropriately be located in residential areas to provide
recreational, religious, health, and other essential services for residents;
      (3)   Can perform their activities more effectively in a residential
environment, unaffected by adjacent industrial or general services uses; and
      (4)   Do not create significant objectionable influences in residential
areas.
   (B)   In R-1B Low Density Residential Districts, the following regulations
in §
153.046 shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 153.045) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.046   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or
occupied, for any of the following purposes and no other.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
   (B)   Special exception.
      (1)   Churches, rectories or parish houses.
      (2)   Clubs, except:
         (a)   Clubs, the chief activity of which is a service predominantly
carried on as a business;
         (b)   Noncommercial, outdoor swimming pool clubs; or
         (c)   Any other noncommercial clubs with outdoor swimming pools
located less than 50 feet from any lot line.
      (3)   Community centers.
      (4)   Health centers (clinics).
      (5)   Libraries, museums, or noncommercial art galleries.
      (6)   Medical offices or group medical centers, including the practice of
dentistry or osteopathy, limited to a location below the level of the first
story ceiling, except that in multiple dwellings (permitted only in R-
3 Residential District), such uses may be located on the floor, if separate
access to the outside is provided.
      (7)   Monasteries, convents, or novitiates.
      (8)   Municipal facilities and public utility uses directly related to
and necessary for services within the district or village.
      (9)   Nonprofit or voluntary hospitals or related hospital facilities
including animal hospitals.
      (10)   Philanthropic or nonprofit institutions with sleeping
accommodations, including nursing homes or sanitariums, provided that not more
than 25% of the floor area shall be used for central office purposes.
      (11)   Proprietary nursing homes or sanitariums.
      (12)   Radio and television transmitting stations and towers may be
erected and used by federally licensed operators, including amateur radio
operators ancillary to their private residences.
      (13)   Welfare centers.
      (14)   Cemeteries.
      (15)   Outdoor tennis courts or ice skating rinks, provided that all
lighting shall be directed away from nearby residential zoning lots.
      (16)   Public parks or playgrounds or private parks.
(1995 Code, § 153.046) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.047   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For any dwelling, 20 feet, not exceeding 2-1/2 stories;
   (B)   For any building accessory to any dwelling use, 14 feet, not exceeding
one story; and
   (C)   For any other nondwelling building or other structure, 20 feet, except
that such height may be increased to a maximum of 65 feet, provided that for
every foot of height in excess of 20 feet, there shall be added to each yard
requirement one corresponding foot of width or depth.
(1995 Code, § 153.047) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.048   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width.
      (1)   A lot area of not less than 4,000 square feet, and a lot width of
not less than 40 feet at the building line shall be provided for every building
or other structure erected or used for any use permitted in this district,
except that in the case of a use set forth in §
153.046(B)(10), the minimum lot area and width requirements may be reduced when
authorized as a special exception.
      (2)   Each permitted building or structure other than a single-family
detached dwelling and accessory building, shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 25,000 square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than 200 feet.
   (B)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard between the building line and
the highway and street right-of-way lines as follows:
      (1)   On existing four-lane federal or state highways, a distance of 60
feet;
      (2)   On existing two-lane federal or state highways, a distance of 75
feet;
      (3)   All county highways, a distance of 50 feet; and
      (4)   All other streets, a distance of 30 feet.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 12 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than six feet.
      (2)   On each corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 12 feet, and the side yard
not abutting the street having a width of not less than six feet.
      (3)   On any lot, in any side yard not abutting the street, a detached
private garage may be erected and maintained within the rear quarter of the lot
if not closer to the side lot line than six feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of which
shall be not less than 30 feet, except that an accessory use structure may be
erected within the rear yard not closer to the property line than ten feet.
   (E)   Building coverage. Not more than 30% of the area of any lot shall be
occupied by buildings.
(1995 Code, § 153.048) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968; Am. Ord. 96-O-8, passed
6-10-1996)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.049   BUILDING SIZE.
   (A)   Generally. No building shall be erected for residential purposes
having ground floor area of less than 1,200 square feet, exclusive of
unenclosed porches, terraces and garages.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Buildings erected for residential purposes having a basement
greater than 200 square feet, may have a ground floor area not less than 1,000
square feet.
      (2)   Buildings erected for residential purposes having a basement,
greater than 200 square feet and more than one story may have a ground floor
area not less than 800 square feet.
(1995 Code, § 153.049) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.050   LANDSCAPING.
   One 2-1/2 inch caliper deciduous tree for every 30 feet of street frontage
or portion thereof shall be planted in (any section of) the front yard of every
lot and a minimum of five foundation plantings, two upright, and three
spreaders.
(1995 Code, § 153.050) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.051   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking requirements will be in accordance with the provisions
set forth in §§
153.185 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.052   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.052) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.060   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   The general character of these residential districts is to consist of
single-family and two-family dwellings, set on medium sized building lots.
Nonresidential uses would be of similar character as those in R-1 Low Density
Residential Districts. In R-2 Medium Density Residential Districts, the
following regulations in §
153.061 shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 153.060) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.061   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or
occupied for any of the following purposes, and no other.
   (A)   A use permitted in the R-1 Low Density Residential District.
   (B)   Single-family semidetached dwellings.
   (C)   Two-family dwellings.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
(1995 Code, § 153.061) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.062   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in
this district shall be as prescribed in §
153.032, insofar as applicable to uses permitted in this district.
(1995 Code, § 153.062) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.063   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width. A lot area of not less than 4,000 square
feet, and a lot width of not less than 40 feet at the building line shall be
provided for a single-family dwelling and not less than 6,000 square feet with
a lot width of not less than 60 feet for a two-family dwelling. Other
structures erected or used for any use permitted in this district, except that
in the case of a use set forth in §
153.031(B)(10) the minimum lot area and width requirements may be reduced when
authorized as a special exception.
   (B)   Front yard.  Same as required in R-1 Low Density Residential District.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 10 feet, and neither side yard having a width
of less than five feet.
      (2)   On each corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than nine feet, and the side
yard not abutting the street having a width of not less than five feet.
      (3)   On any lot, in any side yard not abutting a street, a detached
private garage may be erected and maintained within the rear quarter of the lot
if not closer to the side lot line than five feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of which
shall not be less than 25 feet, except that an accessory use structure may be
erected within the rear yard not closer to the rear property line than ten
feet, and except that on a corner lot an accessory use structure within 13 feet
of the street line may be erected not closer to the rear property line than ten
feet.
   (E)   Building coverage. Not more than 30% of the area of any lot shall be
occupied by buildings.
(1995 Code, § 153.063) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.064   BUILDING SIZE.
   No building shall be erected for residential purposes having a ground floor
area of less than 1,000 square feet for a single-family dwelling, or less than
a total floor area of 1,600 square feet for a two-family dwelling, exclusive of
unenclosed porches, terraces, and garages.
(1995 Code, § 153.064) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.065   LANDSCAPING.
   Same as required in R-1 Low Density Residential District.
(1995 Code, § 153.065) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.066   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking requirements will be in accordance with the provisions
set forth in §§
153.185 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 153.066) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.067   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.067) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
R-3 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.075   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   (A)   The general character of these residential districts is to consist of
single-family, two-family, and twin-family detached and semidetached dwellings,
set in a high density living environment. Nonresidential uses would be of
similar character as those permitted in R-1 Low Density Residential Districts.
   (B)   In R-3 High Density Residential Districts, the following regulations
in §
153.076 shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 153.075) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.076   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or
occupied for any of the following purposes and no other.
   (A)   A use permitted in R-2 Medium Density Residential Districts.
   (B)   Single-family attached, not to exceed six dwellings per structural
unit.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings (multiple-family dwellings of 25 units or
more in a single development will require a special exception permit).
   (D)    Accessory uses.
(1995 Code, § 153.076) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.077   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in
this district shall be as prescribed in §
153.032 herein, insofar as applicable to the uses permitted in this district.
(1995 Code, § 153.077) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.078   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width. A minimum lot area per housing unit and a
minimum lot width at the building line shall be provided for every building
erected, altered, or used for any dwelling use permitted in this district in
accordance with the following table:
Type of Dwelling Unit Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Minimum Lot Width per
                      Unit (sq. ft.)                Dwelling Unit (feet)
Type of Dwelling Unit      Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Minimum Lot Width per
                           Unit (sq. ft.)                Dwelling Unit (feet)
Single-family dwelling     4,800                         40
Single-family, attached    2,400                         30
Two-family dwelling        7,200                         60
Multi-family three bedroom 2,500
Multi-family two bedroom   2,000
Multi-family one bedroom   1,500
Studio apartments          1,500
 
   (B)   Front yards. Same as in R-1 Low Density Residential District.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each interior lot, side yards shall be provided in accordance
with the following table:
 
Type of Dwelling Unit  Minimum Number of Minimum Aggregate Minimum for Any One
                       Yards             Width (feet)      (feet)
Single-family dwelling 2                 10                5
Single-family,         1                 12                6
attached (end only)
Two-family dwelling    2                 20                8
Multi-family dwelling  2                 20                8
 
      (2)   On each corner lot, there shall be a side yard abutting the street
having a width of not less than 15 feet and, except where the lot is occupied
by a single-family semidetached dwelling, a two-family semidetached dwelling,
or by a town house, a side yard abutting the interior side lot line having a
width of not less than eight feet.
      (3)   For every building erected, altered, or used for any other use
permitted in this district, there shall be side yards provided in accordance
with the following.
         (a)   On interior lots, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 20 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than eight feet.
         (b)   On each corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 15 feet, and the side yard
not abutting the street having a width of not less than eight feet.
      (4)   On any lot, in any side yard not abutting the street, a detached
private garage may be erected and maintained within the rear quarter of the lot
if not closer to the side lot line than five feet, and private garages may be
erected and maintained on adjacent lots within the rear quarters thereof having
a wall in common located on the common side lot line.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of which
shall be not less than 25 feet, except that an accessory use structure may be
erected within the rear yard not closer to the rear lot line than ten feet.
   (E)   Building coverage. The maximum percentage of the area of each lot
which may be occupied by buildings shall be in accordance with the following
table:
 
Type of Dwelling Unit   Maximum Coverage
Single-family           30%
Single-family, attached 40%
Two-family              30%
Multi-family            40%
 
(1995 Code, § 153.078) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.079   LANDSCAPING.
   One 2-1/2 inch caliper deciduous tree for every 30 feet of street frontage
or portion thereof shall be planted in (any section of) the front yard of every
lot and a minimum of five foundation plantings, two upright, and three
spreaders.
(1995 Code, § 153.079) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.080   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking requirements will be in accordance with the provisions
set forth in §§
153.185 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 153.080) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.081   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.081) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.090   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   The general character of these commercial districts would be designed for
local shopping and include a limited range of retail establishments catering to
frequently recurring needs. In District C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Districts,
the following regulations in §
153.091 shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 153.090) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.091   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or
occupied for any of the following purposes, and no other.
   (A)   Foods, beverages, drugs, household supplies, scientific or
professional instruments, or florist shop.
   (B)   Business or professional office, studio, bank, savings and loan or
other financial institutions, library, museum, and public transportation
stations.
   (C)   Restaurants, confectionery, or other place serving food or alcoholic
beverages, provided however that an outdoor counter, drive-in, or curb service
shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Personal service shop, including barber, beauty salon, shoe repair,
tailor, dressmaking, and pickup for dry cleaning and laundry, none of which
shall exceed 2,500 square feet of floor area per establishment.
   (E)   Municipal or commercial parking garage or lot, other than the required
parking space provided by establishments within the districts.
   (F)   Any use of the same general character as any of the above permitted
uses when authorized as a special exception.
   (G)   Accessory uses.
(1995 Code, § 153.091) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.092   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height of any building or other structure shall be two stories
or not more than 30 feet.
(1995 Code, § 153.092) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.093   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width. A minimum lot area of not less than 4,800
square feet, and a lot width of not less than 40 feet at the building line
shall be provided for every building or other structure erected or used for any
use permitted in this district, and in no case shall an individual
establishment exceed 5,000 square feet of floor space. In the case of a planned
development, the heights of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged
in this district, and area, width, yard, and building coverage requirements
therefore shall be as specified on or in connection with the aforesaid planned
development. The planned development shall encompass an area of not less than
2-1/2 acres.
   (B)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on each lot, the depth of
which shall be not less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each corner lot, there shall be a side yard, abutting the
street, having a width of not less than 15 feet, and another side yard having a
width of not less than eight feet unless the building employs a common party
wall with the building on the adjoining lot.
      (2)   On a lot abutting any residential zoning district, there shall be a
side yard abutting such district having a width of not less than 12 feet, which
shall be effectively screened from abutting lots by a strip of planting not
less than 12 feet in ultimate width, such planting consisting of not less than
50% evergreen material scattered throughout.
      (3)   Where abutting lots having buildings or other structures, employing
a common party wall, no side yard is required.
      (4)   All interior lots shall have two side yards, each having a width of
not less than eight feet, except where party walls are used.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of which
shall be not less than 30 feet from the rear lot line.
   (E)   Building coverage. No more than 40% of any lot may be covered by
buildings.
(1995 Code, § 153.093) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.094   LANDSCAPING.
   One 2-1/2 inch caliper deciduous tree for every 30 feet of street frontage
or portion thereof shall be planted in (any section of) the front yard of every
lot.
(1995 Code, § 153.094) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.095   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Adequate off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in
accordance with §§
153.185 et seq. herein, except in the case of a planned development the
required space for individual establishments need not be provided separately
but may be made a component part of such plan.
(1995 Code, § 153.095) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.096   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.096) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.097   SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   All business shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building,
except for off-street parking. Any major development of 10,000 square feet of
gross floor area or more will require a special exception permit.
(1995 Code, § 153.097) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
DISTRICT C-2 HIGHWAY ORIENTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.105   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   The general character of these commercial districts would be designed to
accommodate highway oriented shopping and service facilities which cater
largely to needs of the traveling public and to essential services to business
establishments over a wide area of the village, and which would generate
considerable traffic.
(1995 Code, § 153.105) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.106   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or
occupied for any of the following purposes and no other.
   (A)   Any use permitted in Districts C-1 Neighborhood Commercial without
regard to maximum floor area restraints.
   (B)   Amusements.
      (1)   Bowling alleys.
      (2)   Theaters.
   (C)   Retail and service establishments.
      (1)   Motels and hotels.
      (2)   Automobile sales and repair garages.
      (3)   Indoor restaurants.
      (4)   Motor banks.
      (5)   Gift shops.
      (6)   Automobile service stations only when authorized by special
exception.
      (7)   Any use of similar character when authorized by special exception.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
(1995 Code, § 153.106) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.107   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height of any building or other structure shall be two stories
or not more than 30 feet.
(1995 Code, § 153.107) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.108   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width. A minimum lot area of not less than 8,000
square feet, and a lot width of not less than 70 feet at the building line
shall be provided for every building or other structure erected or used for any
use permitted in this district. In the case of a planned development, the
heights of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in this district,
and area, width, yard, and building coverage requirements therefor shall be as
specified on or in connection with the aforesaid planned development. The
planned development shall encompass an area of not less than 1/2 acre.
   (B)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on each lot, the depth of
which shall be not less than 30 feet from the right-of-way line.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each corner lot, there shall be a side yard, abutting the
street, having a width of not less than 15 feet, and another side yard having a
width of not less than 15 feet unless the building employs a common party wall
with the building on the adjoining lot.
      (2)   Where abutting lots have buildings or other structures, employing a
common party wall, no side yard is required.
      (3)   All interior lots shall have two side yards, each having a width of
not less than 15 feet, except where party walls are used.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of which
shall be not less than 40 feet.
   (E)   Building coverage. No more than 35% of any lot may be covered by
buildings.
(1995 Code, § 153.108) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.109   LANDSCAPING.
   Two 2-1/2 inch caliper deciduous trees for every 30 feet of street frontage
or portion thereof shall be planted in (any section of) the front yard of every
lot.
(1995 Code, § 153.109) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.110   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Adequate off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in
accordance with the regulations specified within §§
153.185 et seq. herein, except in the case of a planned development the
required space for individual establishments need not be provided separately
but may be made a component part of such plan.
(1995 Code, § 153.110) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.111   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.111) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.112   SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   All business shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building except
for off-street parking. Any major development of 10,000 square feet of gross
floor area or more will require a special exception permit.
(1995 Code, § 153.112) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
M-1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 153.120   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   The general character of these manufacturing districts is designed to
consist of industries which:
   (A)   Can conform to high and medium performance standards by controlling
objectionable influences;
   (B)   In so doing, can limit their impact on adjacent residential areas; and
   (C)   Normally generate a great deal of traffic, both pedestrian and
freight.
(1995 Code, § 153.120) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.121   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or other structure may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot
may be occupied or used for any of the following purposes on receiving a
special exception permit.
   (A)   Service or wholesale establishments.
      (1)   Building materials or contractors' yards, open or enclosed, except
that yards shall be limited to 20,000 square feet per establishment.
      (2)   Wholesale produce or meat markets.
   (B)   Manufacturing establishments.
      (1)   Adhesives.
      (2)   Aircraft.
      (3)   Apparel.
      (4)   Automobiles, trucks, and trailers.
      (5)   Beverages, nonalcoholic.
      (6)   Boats, less than 200 feet in length.
      (7)   Bottling works.
      (8)   Brushes and brooms.
      (9)   Cameras or other photographic equipment.
      (10)   Carpets.
      (11)   Canvas or like products.
      (12)   Ceramic products.
      (13)   Chemicals, compounding or packaging.
      (14)   Cosmetics.
      (15)   Electrical appliances and equipment, excluding machinery.
      (16)   Food products.
      (17)   Glass products.
      (18)   Hosiery.
      (19)   Ice.
      (20)   Ink.
      (21)   Jute and hemp products.
      (22)   Laboratories, research, experimental, and test.
      (23)   Leather products and luggage.
      (24)   Business machines.
      (25)   Miscellaneous machines.
      (26)   Machine tools.
      (27)   Mattresses.
      (28)   Metal finishing.
      (29)   Metal stamping.
      (30)   Musical instruments.
      (31)   Novelty products.
      (32)   Optical equipment, clocks, and instruments.
      (33)   Orthopedic and medical appliances.
      (34)   Outdoor theater.
      (35)   Paper products.
      (36)   Pharmaceutical products.
      (37)   Plastic products.
      (38)   Printing and publishing.
      (39)   Rubber products.
      (40)   Soap packaging.
      (41)   Sporting and athletic equipment.
      (42)   Steel fabrication.
      (43)   Textiles.
      (44)   Tobacco products.
      (45)   Tools and hardware products.
      (46)   Toys.
      (47)   Upholstering.
      (48)   Vehicles for children.
      (49)   Venetian blinds and similar products.
      (50)   Wood products.
   (C)   Miscellaneous uses.
      (1)   Agriculture, including greenhouses, nurseries, or truck gardens.
      (2)   Lumber yards.
      (3)   Public transit and utility facilities.
      (4)   Truck terminals.
      (5)   Warehousing.
   (D)   Accessory uses.  Any applicant for a special permit for any of the
above uses shall have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
Planning Commission that provision will be made to adequately reduce or
minimize the noxious, offensive, dangerous, or hazardous feature or features
thereof, as the case may be. Uses of the same general character, not
specifically named will also be permitted when authorized as a special
exception.
(1995 Code, § 153.121) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.122   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in
this district shall be 35 feet, except that such height may be increased to a
maximum of 5 feet provided that for every foot of height in excess of 35 feet,
there shall be added to each yard requirement one corresponding foot of width
or depth.
(1995 Code, § 153.122) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.123   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width. A lot area of not less than 30,000 square
feet, and a lot width of not less than 100 feet at the building line shall be
provided for every building or other structure erected or used for any use
permitted in this district.
   (B)   Front yards. There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall be
not less than 30 feet in depth.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 20 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than ten feet, except as hereinafter provided in division (F) hereof.
      (2)   On each corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 50 feet and the side yard
not abutting the street having a width of not less than 20 feet, except as
hereinafter provided in division (F) hereof.
   (D)   Rear yard.  There shall be a rear yard on each lot the depth of which
shall be not less than 50 feet, except as hereinafter provided in division (F)
hereof.
   (E)   Building coverage.  Not more than 50% of the area of any lot shall be
occupied by building.
   (F)   Lots abutting residential districts. Unless authorized as a special
exception, in no case shall any building or structure be erected closer than
100 feet to any residential district nor shall any parking area be closer than
60 feet to any residential district which 60 feet area between such parking lot
and such residential district shall be maintained as green area entirely
covered by grass, shrubs, or trees.
(1995 Code, § 153.123) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.124   LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   All areas delineated by the front lot line and a depth of 30 feet there from
for the entire length thereof, and all areas delineated by any lot line
abutting a residential district and a depth of 30 feet for the entire length
thereof shall be maintained as green areas and planted in grass, shrubs, or
trees, except for necessary ways of access therethrough.
(1995 Code, § 153.124) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.125   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The provisions of §§
153.185 et seq. to the contrary notwithstanding, no parking area shall be
permitted closer than 20 feet to the front line of any lot in this district,
nor closer than 20 feet to any residential district.
(1995 Code, § 153.125) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.126   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.126) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
M-2 HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 153.135   INTENDED PURPOSES.
   The general character of these manufacturing districts is designed to
consist of industries which:
   (A)   Either involve considerable danger of fire, explosion, or other
hazards to public health or safety, or cannot be designed without appreciable
expense to conform to high or medium performance standards with respect to the
emission of objectionable influences; or
   (B)   Normally generate a great deal of traffic, both pedestrian and
freight.
(1995 Code, § 153.135) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.136   USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or other structure may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot
may be occupied or used for any of the following purposes on receiving a
special exception permit.
   (A)   Generally. All uses permitted in the M-1 Light Manufacturing District.
   (B)   Manufacturing establishments.
      (1)   Asphalt or asphalt products.
      (2)   Beverages, alcoholic, or breweries.
      (3)   Brick, tile, or clay.
      (4)   Cement.
      (5)   Charcoal, lampblack, or fuel briquettes.
      (6)   Chemical products.
      (7)   Coal, coke, or tar products.
      (8)   Excelsior or packing materials.
      (9)   Fertilizers.
      (10)   Foundries.
      (11)   Gelatin, glue, or size.
      (12)   Glass products.
      (13)   Grain milling or processing.
      (14)   Gypsum.
      (15)   Film, photographic.
      (16)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, offal, or dead animals.
      (17)   Insecticides or related industrial or household chemical
compounds.
      (18)   Leather or fur tanning, curing, finishing, or dyeing.
      (19)   Machinery, heavy and electrical.
      (20)   Matches.
      (21)   Meat or fish products, including slaughter and preparation
thereof.
      (22)   Metal or metal ores.
      (23)   Metal alloys or foil.
      (24)   Metal or metal products.
      (25)   Metal casting or foundry products.
      (26)   Monument works.
      (27)   Paint, varnishes, or turpentine.
      (28)   Petroleum or petroleum products, refining.
      (29)   Plastic, raw.
      (30)   Porcelain products.
      (31)   Railroad equipment.
      (32)   Rubber, natural or synthetic products.
      (33)   Sewage disposal plants.
      (34)   Soaps or detergents, including fat rendering.
      (35)   Steel, structural products.
      (36)   Solvent extracting.
      (37)   Stone processing or stone products.
      (38)   Sugar refining.
      (39)   Wood or bone distillation.
      (40)   Wood or lumber processing.
      (41)   Wood pulp or fiber reduction or processing.
      (42)   Wool scouring or pulling.
   (C)   Storage or miscellaneous uses.
      (1)   Coal or gas storage.
      (2)   Electric power or steam generating plants.
      (3)   Explosives storage, when not prohibited by other ordinances.
      (4)   Gas manufacturing plants.
      (5)   Grain storage.
      (6)   Lumber yards.
      (7)   Manure, peat or topsoil storage.
      (8)   Refrigerating plants.
      (9)   Scrap metal, paper, or rags storage.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Any applicant for a special exception permit for any
of the above uses shall have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of
the Planning Commission that provision will be made to adequately reduce or
minimize the noxious, offensive, dangerous, or hazardous feature or features
thereof, as the case may be. Uses of the same general character, not
specifically named, will be permitted when authorized as a special exception.
(1995 Code, § 153.136) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.137   HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in
this district shall be 35 feet, except that such height may be increased to a
maximum of 65 feet provided that for every foot in excess of 35 feet, there
shall be added to each yard requirement one corresponding foot of width or
depth.
(1995 Code, § 153.137) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.138   AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area and width. A lot area of not less than 50,000 square
feet, and a lot width of not less than 100 feet at the building line shall be
provided for every building or other structure erected or used for any use
permitted in this district.
   (B)   Front yards. There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall be
not less than 30 feet in depth.
   (C)   Side yards.
      (1)   On each interior lot there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 50 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than 20 feet, except as hereinafter provided in division (F) hereof.
      (2)   On each corner lot there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 50 feet and the side yard
not abutting the street having a width of not less than 20 feet, except as
hereinafter provided in division (F) hereof.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot the depth of which
shall be not less than 50 feet, except as hereinafter provided in division (F)
hereof.
   (E)   Building coverage. Not more than 50% of the area of any lot shall be
occupied by building.
   (F)   Lots abutting residential districts. Unless authorized as a special
exception, in no case shall any building or structure be erected closer than
100 feet to any residential district nor shall any parking area be closer than
60 feet to any residential district which 60 feet area between such parking lot
and such residential district shall be maintained as green area entirely
covered by grass, shrubs, or trees.
(1995 Code, § 153.138) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.139   LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   All areas delineated by the front lot line and a depth of 60 feet therefrom
for the entire length thereof, and all areas delineated by any lot line
abutting a residential district and a depth of 60 feet for the entire length
thereof shall be maintained as green areas and planted in grass, shrubs, or
trees, except for necessary ways of access therethrough.
(1995 Code, § 153.139) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.140   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The provisions of §§
153.185 et seq. to the contrary notwithstanding, no parking area shall be
permitted closer than 40 feet to the front line of any lot in this district,
nor closer than 40 feet to any residential district.
(1995 Code, § 153.140) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.141   SIGNS.
   Sign requirements will be in accordance with the provisions of §
153.163.
(1995 Code, § 153.141) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.150   MODIFICATION OF FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where an unimproved lot is situated between two improved lots having
on each a principal building within 25 feet of the side boundary line of such
unimproved lot, which extends into the required front yard of each such
unimproved lot has been so maintained since the effective date of this chapter,
the front yard depth of such unimproved lot may be the average depth of the
front yard of the two adjacent improved lots, not withstanding the yard
requirements of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Where an unimproved lot adjoins only one improved lot having a
principal building thereon within 25 feet of the common side lot line which
extends into the required front yard of such improved lot and has been so
maintained since the effective date of this chapter, the front yard depth of
such unimproved lot may be the average depth of the front yard of such adjacent
improved lot and the front yard required for the district in which such
unimproved lot is located, notwithstanding the yard requirements for such
district.
(1995 Code, § 153.150) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.151   DWELLINGS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   One single-family detached dwelling may be erected and used on any lot
located in any industrial district which is unimproved and held in single and
separate ownership at the effective date of this chapter, if permitted by, and
subject to, the zoning regulations applicable to such lot immediately prior to
the effective date of this chapter, and such lot shall be used only for such
dwelling purpose and accessory uses customarily incidental thereto.
(1995 Code, § 153.151) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.152   PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS.
   No building and no part of a building shall be erected within or shall
project into any required yard in any district except that:
   (A)   An unenclosed porch, not more than 14 feet in height, may be erected
to extend into a required front or rear yard at a distance of not more than ten
feet, provided that in no case shall it extend into such front or rear yards
more than 1/2 of the required depth of the yard;
   (B)   A terrace, platform, or land place, not covered by a roof, canopy, or
trellis, which does not extend above the level of first floor of the building,
may be erected to extend into a required yard a distance of not more than 12
feet provided that it shall not extend into such yard more than 40% of the
required depth or width of the yard;
   (C)   A porte cochere may be erected over a driveway in a required side
yard, provided that such structure is:
      (1)   Not more than 14 feet in height and 20 feet in length;
      (2)   Entirely open on at least three sides, exclusive of the necessary
supporting columns and customary architectural features; and
      (3)   At least three feet from the side lot line.
   (D)   A buttress, chimney, cornice, pier, or pilaster of a building may
project not more than 18 inches into a required yard; or
   (E)   Open unenclosed fire escapes, steps, bay windows, and balconies may
project not more than three feet into a required yard;
(1995 Code, § 153.152) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.153   CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   A single-family detached dwelling existing on the effective date of this
chapter, may be converted into and used as a two-family or multi-family
dwelling, when authorized as a special exception, provided that:
   (A)   The plan for the conversion of such dwelling shall be submitted to the
Zoning Board of Appeals;
   (B)   Such plan shall provide adequate and suitable parking or storage
space, at a safe distance from the public highway, for not less than one
automobile per family;
   (C)   Such dwelling shall be subject to the height, area, width, and yard
regulations effective in the district wherein such dwelling is situated, except
that there shall be a lot area not less than the product of the minimum lot
area prescribed in the district regulations and the number of families for the
use of which such dwelling is to be converted;
   (D)   There shall be no external alteration of the building except as may be
necessary for reasons of safety, and, fire escapes and outside stairways shall,
where practical, be located to the rear of the building; and
   (E)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall specify the maximum number of
families permitted to occupy such dwelling, and prescribe such further
conditions and restrictions in respect to conversion and use of such dwelling,
and to the use of the lot, as the Board may consider appropriate.
(1995 Code, § 153.153) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.154   CORNER VISION OBSTRUCTION.
   On any corner lot, no wall, fence, or other structure shall be erected or
altered and no hedge, tree or shrub, or other growth, shall be maintained which
may cause danger to traffic on a street by obscuring the view.
(1995 Code, § 153.154) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.155   HEIGHT LIMITATION OF FENCES AND WALLS.
   No fence or wall except a retaining wall, or a wall of a building permitted
under the terms of this chapter, over six feet in height shall be erected
within any of the open spaces required for this chapter unless that portion of
the fence or wall which exceeds six feet in height has a ratio of open area to
solid area of at least four to one.
(1995 Code, § 153.155) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.156   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to and must conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to main buildings.
   (B)   In residential districts accessory buildings shall not be erected in
any yard, except a rear yard.
   (C)   An accessory building not exceeding one story or 15 feet in height may
occupy not more than 25% of a required rear yard, plus 40% of any nonrequired
rear yard.
   (D)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
to any main building nor shall it be located closer than five feet to any side
lot line with eaves no closer than four feet to any lot line.
(1995 Code, § 153.156) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.157   MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.
   In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided that yard and other
requirements of this chapter shall be met for each structure as though it were
on an individual lot.
(1995 Code, § 153.157) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.158   EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district regulations do
not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy.
(1995 Code, § 153.158) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.159   STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to an approved private street, and all structures
shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing, fire protection, and required off-street parking.
(1995 Code, § 153.159) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.160   MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   For purposes of this chapter, MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pickup campers or coaches
(designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent
trailers, and the like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational
equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not. No major recreational
equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in a residential district except
in a carport or enclosed building or behind the nearest portion of a building
to a street, provided, however, that such equipment may be parked anywhere on
residential premises for not to exceed 24 hours during loading or unloading. No
such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes
when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any location not approved for
such use.
(1995 Code, § 153.160) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.161   PARKING AND STORING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially zoned property other
than in completely enclosed buildings.
(1995 Code, § 153.161) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.162   TOPSOIL.
   Excavations of, or the removal of topsoil from any property in the village
is prohibited except as such excavations or removal of topsoil is incidental to
the erection and maintenance of structures or appurtenances thereto or the use
of property permitted by this and other ordinances of the village.
(1995 Code, § 153.162) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.163   SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs in residential districts.
      (1)   Illuminated nameplates are permitted, subject to the following
regulations.
         (a)   In R-1 and R-2 Districts, a nameplate shall not exceed 48 square
inches in area, and shall indicate only the name or name and address of the
occupant. There shall be not more than one such nameplate for each dwelling.
         (b)   In R-3 Districts, only such a nameplate shall be permitted for a
single-family or a two-family dwelling; but for a multiple-family dwelling, a
nameplate may be not more than three square feet in area, provided it indicates
only the name or name and address of the dwelling; such a nameplate may be
located in a front yard not less than four feet from the front lot line, or
one-half the depth of the front yard, whichever is greater, nor be higher than
one story, or 20 feet above the curb level, whichever is lower.
      (2)   Unilluminated “For Sale” and “For Rent” signs are permitted,
except, there shall be not more than one sign per lot, except that on a corner
lot, two signs, one facing each street shall be permitted. No sign shall exceed
12 square feet in area; nor be closer than eight feet to any side and rear lot
line, and four feet to the front lot line, or one-half the depth of the front
yard, whichever is greater; nor project higher than one story, or 20 feet above
curb level, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Illuminated, nonflashing church-bulletin signs are permitted
subject to the following regulations that there shall be not more than one sign
per lot, except that on a corner lot two signs, one facing each street shall be
permitted. No sign shall exceed 16 square feet in area, nor be closer than
eight feet to any side and rear lot line, and four feet to the front lot line,
or 1/2 the depth of the front yard, whichever is greater, nor project higher
than one story, or 20 feet above curb level, whichever is lower.
   (B)   Signs in commercial districts. Nonflashing but illuminated business
signs with no moving parts, awnings, and marquees are permitted subject to
regulations set forth elsewhere in the ordinances of the village and the
following.
      (1)   Exterior signs may be illuminated between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m., or the close of business, whichever is later. Where a sign is
illuminated by light reflected on it, direct rays of light shall not beam on
any part of any part of any existing residential building nor into a
residential district, or into a street. A sign in direct line of vision of any
traffic signal shall not have red, green, or amber illumination.
      (2)   The gross surface area in square feet of all signs on a lot shall
not exceed six times the lineal feet of frontage of the lot, and for lots
fronting on more than one street, only the established front lot line shall be
considered as frontage of the lot.
      (3)   Any sign affixed to a building shall not project therefrom nearer
than two feet from the abutting street right-of-way line. A ground sign shall
be not nearer than two feet from the nearest street right-of-way line and not
nearer than five feet from a side or rear lot line.
      (4)   A sign affixed to a building shall not project higher than four
feet above building height, and a sign projecting more than 15 inches from a
building wall shall have its lowest level not less than ten feet above the
grade below it. A ground sign shall not project higher than 24 feet above the
grade below it. However, such signs located within 50 feet of the intersection
of two or more streets shall have their lowest levels not less than ten feet
above the grade below it, and when located within three feet of a driveway or
parking area they shall have their lowest levels not less than 12 feet above
the grade below it. Such signs may be supported by not more than two columns,
each having a dimension of not more than 8 by 15 by 12 inches, and an
additional structural part thereof not more than two feet above grade. The
narrow dimensions of the columns shall be parallel to the line connecting the
50 foot points back from the street intersection.
      (5)   In a unified shopping center, in single ownership or control, one
additional sign may be erected for it, the sign shall not exceed 150 square
feet in area nor display more than the name and location of the shopping
center, such sign shall be set back at least half the required yard depth
distance from each abutting street and its bottom edge shall be at least ten
feet above the level of the ground, and its overall height shall not exceed 24
feet above the curb level.
(1995 Code, § 153.163) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.164   RAIL LEADS.
   Right-of-way requirements for single tracks should be 18 feet and not less
than 33 feet for two tracks. The minimum radius for curves shall not be less
than 300 feet and 2% is the maximum grade of trackage.
(1995 Code, § 153.164) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, USES, AND LOTS
§ 153.170   CONTINUATION.
   Any lawful building or other structure, or any lawful use of a building or
other structure or land, existing on the effective date of this chapter, which
does not conform with the provisions of this chapter, shall be considered a
lawful nonconforming building, structure or use, and may be continued, except
as otherwise herein provided.
(1995 Code, § 153.170) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.171   EXTENSION.
   Any lawful nonconforming use of a portion of a building may be extended
throughout the building, and any lawful nonconforming building or any building
of which a lawful nonconforming use is made, may be extended or enlarged on the
lot occupied by such building that is held in single and separate ownership on
the effective date of this chapter, provided that the area of such buildings
shall not be increased by more than a total of 25% of the area of such building
existing on the date it first became a lawful nonconforming building or a
building on which a lawful nonconforming use is made, and provided further that
any structural alteration, extension, or addition, shall conform with all
height, area, width, yard, and coverage requirements, for the district in which
it is located.
(1995 Code, § 153.171) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.172   CHANGE.
   Any lawful nonconforming use of a building or land may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same classification, which shall thereafter not be
subject to any further change except to a conforming use, and for such purpose,
a building may be extended.
(1995 Code, § 153.172) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.173   RESTORATION.
   Any lawful nonconforming building or other structure which has been
involuntarily damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, windstorm, or other
similar active cause, to an extent of not more than 75% of its fair market
value, may be reconstructed in the same location, provided that:
   (A)   The reconstructed building or structure shall not exceed the height,
area, or volume of the damaged or destroyed building or structure except as
provided in §
153.171, herein; and
   (B)   Reconstruction shall begin within one year from the date of damage or
destruction and shall be carried on without interruption.
(1995 Code, § 153.173) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.174   ABANDONMENT.
   If a lawful nonconforming use of a building or other structure is abandoned
or discontinued for a continuous period of two years or more, or if a lawful
nonconforming use of land is abandoned or discontinued for a continuous period
of two years or more, subsequent use of such building or structure or land
shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 153.174) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.175   NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Every lawful nonconforming sign shall be discontinued and removed, or
changed to a conforming sign, within a period of two years from the effective
date of this chapter, provided that signs which, at the effective date of this
chapter, are maintained in connection with and on the same lot as a lawful
nonconforming use and may be maintained or repaired, or replaced with signs
similar in size and character so long as such lawful nonconforming use
continues, and may not be enlarged or otherwise altered (nor may the
illumination or lack of illumination thereof be changed) except in accordance
with the regulations applicable to the district in which this lot is located.
(1995 Code, § 153.175) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.176   NONCONFORMING TO AREA AND WIDTH REGULATIONS; UNUSUAL DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   When authorized as a special exception, a building may be erected or
altered on any lot held in single and separate ownership on the effective date
of this chapter which is not of the required minimum area or width or is of
such unusual dimensions that the owner would have difficulty in providing the
required open spaces for the district in which the lot is situated.
   (B)   Where two or more contiguous undeveloped lots are held in single
ownership, within a subdivision which has been duly recorded prior to the
effective date of this chapter, which lots are individually not of the required
minimum area or width for the district in which they are situated, no special
exception shall be required for the issuance of building permits provided that
such lots shall be developed in groups or fractions thereof, as single lots, to
provide the minimum lot frontage required for each structure.
(1995 Code, § 153.176) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.177   SUBDIVISIONS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED.
   In the case of a plot of land, a plan for the subdivision of which into two
or more parcels or lots for the purpose of development and sale has, prior to
the effective date of this chapter, been duly approved and recorded as required
by law, which plan does not make provisions for full adherence to the
regulations of this chapter governing minimum lot areas or widths, front, side
or rear yards, or building coverage, but was in conformity with such
regulations as were effective at the time such plan was approved and recorded,
the development and sale contemplated by the plan may be proceeded with when
authorized as a special exception. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have power
to grant a variance with respect to the whole of such plot of land or any
portion thereof.
(1995 Code, § 153.177) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 153.185   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The off-street parking and off-street loading provisions of this chapter
shall apply as follows.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking and off-street loading facilities shall
be provided as required by the regulations of this subchapter for all buildings
and structures erected and all uses of land established in each district after
the effective date of this chapter. However, where a building permit has been
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter, and provided that
construction is begun within six months of such effective date and diligently
prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities in the amounts
required for the issuance of the building permit may be provided in lieu of any
different amounts required by this chapter.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, or other units of measurement in the amount specified herein
requiring parking or loading facilities, such additional parking and loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the building or structure was erected
prior to the effective date of this chapter, additional parking or loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were subject to
the parking and loading provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 153.185) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.186   EXISTING PARKING FACILITIES.
   Accessory off-street parking facilities in existence on the effective date
of this chapter and located on the same lot as the building or use served shall
not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than shall not be further
reduced below the requirements for a similar new building or use under the
provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 153.186) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.187   PERMANENCY OF SPACES PROVIDED.
   Any parking or loading space established prior to the effective date of this
chapter which is used or intended to be used in connection with any building,
structure, or use, or any space designed and intended to comply with the
requirements of this chapter for any such building or structure erected after
such effective date shall hereafter be maintained in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter so long as the building or structure remains, unless
the owner provides in another location an equivalent number of spaces in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. The Planning Commission shall
at all times be furnished proof in writing of permanency of the parking area
provided in compliance with this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 153.187) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.188   OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities for motor vehicles shall be provided in
accordance with additional regulations set forth hereinafter:
   (A)   Use. Accessory off-street parking facilities required as accessory to
uses listed herein, shall be solely for the parking of passenger automobiles of
patrons, occupants, or employees. When bus transportation is provided, for
patrons, occupants, or employees of a specific establishment, additional open
or enclosed off-street parking spaces for each bus to be parked on the premises
shall be provided in accordance with regulations herein for access, in yards,
design, and maintenance and area applicable to accommodating such buses.
   (B)   Exemption. When the application of the off-street parking regulations
specified hereinafter results in a requirement of not more than three spaces on
a single lot in any commercial district, such parking spaces need not be
provided. However, where two or more uses are located on a single lot, only one
of these uses shall be eligible for the above exemption. This exemption shall
not apply to dwelling units.
   (C)   Collective provisions. Off-street parking facilities for separate uses
may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use and provided
that all regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces, or portion
thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use.
   (D) Plans.
      (1)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking shall be in accord with
the following minimum requirements:
 
                                                  Total Width of Total Width of
Parking   Maneuvering Parking Space Parking Space One Tier of    Two Tiers of
Pattern   Lane Width  Width         Length        Spaces Plus    Space Plus
(degrees) (feet)      (feet)        (feet)        Maneuvering    Maneuvering
                                                  Lane           Lane
                                                  (feet)         (feet)
75 – 90 20          9             20            40             60
54 – 74 15          8-1/2         20            36-1/2         58
30 – 53 12          8-1/2         20            32             52
 
      (2)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
with the exception of the 90 degree pattern where two-way movement may be
permitted.
   (E)   Enclosed areas. Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical
clearance of at least seven feet.
   (F)   Access. Each required off-street parking space shall open directly on
an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-street parking
facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line shall exceed a
width of 25 feet.
   (G)   In yards. Off-street parking spaces, open to the sky, may be located
in any yard except a front yard and a side yard adjoining a street. Enclosed
buildings and carports containing off-street parking spaces shall be subject to
applicable yard requirements.
   (H)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Open or enclosed. Accessory parking spaces may be open to the sky
or enclosed in a building.
      (2)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking spaces and access drives
shall be surfaced with smooth and durable surface material other than cinders
so that they will remain free from dust or litter particles, and be adequately
drained so that they will not retain water, except all open off-street parking
areas containing more than four parking spaces and access drives shall be
improved with seven inches of water-bound macadam base, plus one inch of
bituminous concrete binder, plus two inches of bituminous concrete surface. All
materials and method of installation of any surfacing shall be in accordance
with the village specifications.
      (3)   Screening, landscaping, and barriers. All open off-street parking
areas, containing more than four parking spaces, located less than 40 feet from
the nearest property line of a lot in a residential district, shall be
effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on such property line
by a wall, fence, or densely planted compact hedge, not less than five feet nor
more than eight feet in height. There shall be installed a substantial barrier
on or adjacent to the lot line along all open off-street parking spaces and
such barrier shall be so located that no portion of any vehicle parked on the
lot shall extend over the lot line.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not create
a nuisance and in a parking area containing four or more parking spaces such
lighting shall be extinguished one-half hour after the close of business.
      (5)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with any parking facilities. No gasoline
or motor oil shall be sold in conjunction with any accessory parking
facilities.
      (6)   Surrounding sidewalks. All sidewalks surrounding off-street parking
spaces shall be kept free from dirt, ice, sleet, and snow and maintained in a
safe condition for pedestrian travel.
   (I)   Location. All parking spaces required to serve buildings or uses
erected or established after the effective date of this chapter shall be
located on the same lot as the building or use served. Buildings or uses in any
district except single-family and two-family dwellings existing on the
effective date of this chapter which are subsequently altered or enlarged so as
to require the provision of parking spaces under this chapter and new uses
established in any Commercial District may be served by parking facilities
located on land other than the lot on which the building or use served is
located, provided such facilities are within 300 feet walking distance of a
main entrance to the use served, and in any case are located in districts where
parking lots or storage garages are listed as permitted uses or special uses.
   (J)   Employee parking. Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall
be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on
the premises at any time.
   (K)   Required spaces. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces
accessory to designated uses shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Dwelling and lodging uses.
         (a)   Boarding or rooming houses. Two parking spaces plus one parking
space for each three lodging rooms.
         (b)   Hotels and apartment hotels. One parking space for each three
separate lodging rooms and one parking space for each dwelling unit.
         (c)   Motels or tourist homes. One parking space for each dwelling
unit and one parking space for each lodging room.
         (d)   Multiple-family dwellings. One and one-half parking spaces for
each dwelling unit.
         (e)   Single-family dwellings. Two parking spaces for each dwelling,
but no more than four parking spaces for each single-family dwelling.
         (f)   Two-family dwellings. One and one-half parking spaces per
dwelling unit, but not more than four for each dwelling unit.
      (2)   School, institution, auditorium, or other places of assembly uses.
         (a)   Churches. One parking space for each six seats, or for each 108
inches of seating space used for the principal church service.
         (b)   Convalescent homes, nursing homes, rest homes, and institutions
for the care of the aged and for children. One parking space for each three
beds plus one parking space for each two employees and each doctor assigned to
the staff.
         (c)   Gymnasiums, stadiums, and grandstands. One parking space for
each six seats or for each 108 inches of seating space.
         (d)   Libraries and museums. One parking space for each 800 square
feet of floor area.
         (e)   Medical and dental clinics. Three parking spaces for each
examining and treatment room plus one parking space for each doctor and
employee in the building.
         (f)   Meeting halls, convention halls, and exhibition halls. The
number of parking spaces equal to 30% of the maximum number of people that can
be accommodated in accordance with such design capacity.
         (g)   Private clubs and lodges. One parking space for each lodging
room and one parking space for each six seats in accordance with design seating
capacity of the main meeting room.
         (h)   Schools, commercial or trade, and music, dance, or business. One
parking space for each two employees, plus one space for each five students,
based on the maximum number of students that can be accommodated in accordance
with such design capacity.
         (i)   Schools, high, public or private. One parking space for each
seven students based on the maximum number of students that can be accommodated
in accordance with such design capacity of the building.
         (j)   School, and other institutional auditoriums. One parking space
for each two persons employed on the premises, and one additional parking space
for each six seats, or for each 108 inches of seating space in the main
auditorium or assembly hall.
         (k)   Schools, nursery, elementary, or junior high, public or private.
One parking space for each faculty member and each other full-time employee.
      (3)   Recreational uses, commercial or noncommercial.
         (a)   Bowling alleys. Seven parking spaces for each lane plus such
additional spaces as may be required herein for affiliated uses such as
restaurants and the like.
         (b)   Gymnasiums, health salons, swimming pools, skating rinks, and
dance halls, commercial. One parking space for each three persons, based on the
maximum number of persons that can be accommodated at the same time in
accordance with such design capacity, and one parking space for each two
employees.
         (c)   Parks, recreation areas, or community centers, private,
semipublic, or public. One parking space for each two employees, plus spaces in
adequate number as determined by the Planning Commission to serve the visiting
public.
      (4)   Commercial and manufacturing uses.
         (a)   All business and commercial establishments, except those
specified hereafter. One parking space for each 250 square feet of floor area.
         (b)   Automobile laundries. One parking space for each two employees,
plus one space for the owner or manager, and in addition, reservoir parking
spaces to accommodate automobiles awaiting entrance to the automobile laundry
equal in number to five times the maximum capacity of the automobile laundry.
Maximum capacity, in this instance, shall mean the greatest possible number of
automobiles undergoing some phase of laundering at the same time.
         (c)   Automobile service stations. One parking space for each
employee, plus two for each service stall.
         (d)   Banks. One parking space for each 400 square feet of floor area.
         (e)   Business, professional, and public administration or service
office buildings. One parking space for each two persons employed based on the
designed maximum employee capacity of the building.
         (f)   Cartage, express, parcel delivery, and freight terminal
establishments. One parking space for each employee employed on the premises,
and one and one-half parking space for each vehicle maintained on the premises.
         (g)   Drive-in business and commercial establishments. Reservoir
parking spaces equal in number to 15% of the number of vehicle spaces used for
serving customers.
         (h)   Establishments handling the sale and consumption on the premises
of food and refreshment. One parking space for each 150 square feet of floor
area.
         (I)   Furniture and appliance stores, motor vehicle sales, wholesale
stores, and stores for repair of household equipment or furniture. One parking
space for each 400 square feet of floor area.
         (j)   Manufacturing establishments and establishments engaged in
production, processing, assembly, disassembly, cleaning, servicing, testing, or
repairing of materials, goods, or products. One parking space for each two
employees or one parking space for each 1,200 square feet of floor area,
whichever requires the greater number of parking spaces.
         (k)   Theaters. One parking space for each four seats up to 400 seats,
plus one parking space for each six seats over 400.
         (l)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors. Eight parking
spaces for each chapel or parlor, plus one parking space for each funeral
vehicle maintained on the premises.
         (m)   Warehouse, storage, wholesale, and mail order establishments.
One parking space for each employee and one parking space for each vehicle
maintained on the premises.
      (5)   Miscellaneous uses.
         (a)   Planned developments. The number of parking spaces in accordance
with the required spaces for each individual use.
         (b)   Public utility and public service uses. One parking space for
each two employees, plus spaces in adequate number as determined by the
Planning Commission to serve the visiting public.
      (6)   Other uses. Parking spaces for other permitted or special uses not
listed above shall be provided in accordance with requirements designated by
the Planning Commission.
(1995 Code, § 153.188) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.189   OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Location. All required loading spaces shall be located on the same lot
as the use served. All motor vehicle loading spaces which abut a residential
district or intervening alley separating a residential district from a
commercial or manufacturing district shall be completely screened therefrom by
building walls, or a uniformly painted solid fence, wall, or door, or any
combination thereof, not less than eight feet in height. No permitted or
required loading space shall be located within 40 feet of the nearest point of
intersection of any two streets. No loading space shall be located in a
required front or side yard, and any loading space located in a required rear
yard shall be open to the sky.
   (B)   Area. Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading space
shall be at least 12 feet in width by at least 35 feet in length, exclusive of
aisle and maneuvering space, and enclosed loading spaces shall have a vertical
clearance of at least 14 feet.
   (C)   Access. Each required off-street loading space shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicle access to a street or alley in a manner which will
least interfere with traffic movement.
   (D)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading spaces shall be improved with
water drainage facilities and pavements surfacing in accordance with the
village specifications.
   (E)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities.
   (F)   Utilization. Space allocated to any off-street loading space shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   (G)   Minimum facilities. Uses for which off-street loading facilities are
required herein but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle, off any adjacent
alley, service drive, or open space on the same lot.
   (H)   Off-street loading space requirements.
      (1)   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part
thereof, hereafter erected, established, or enlarged and occupied for
manufacturing, storage, warehouse goods display, department store, wholesale
store, market, hotel, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses, involving
the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall
be provided and maintained adequate space for standing, loading, and unloading
in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the street or alley.
      (2)   Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall include
a 12 foot by 35 foot loading space with 14 foot height clearance for every
20,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet of floor
area used for above mentioned purposes, or for every 20,000 square feet or
fraction thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet of land used for the above
mentioned purposes. These requirements may, on appeal, be increased, modified,
or waived by the Zoning Board of Appeals where the conditions or circumstances
justify such action.
(1995 Code, § 153.189) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.200   INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Recognizing that there is a need for flexibility in providing future village
needs, in keeping abreast of new building methods, and materials, and in
providing for the planning of: dwellings and the various types and groups
thereof, to secure the benefit of solar orientation, climate control, and
additional privacy, and to provide for variety in dwelling types to meet
changing needs of future residences; and commercial buildings and groups
thereof to secure greater convenience to the public through improved methods of
merchandising, transportation, office management, and distribution of services
necessary to the public welfare; and industrial buildings and groups thereof to
secure greater convenience in production through improved methods of
manufacturing, transportation, office management, and distribution of products
necessary to the public welfare; may necessitate the variation in the use and
area requirements of this chapter (which are designed primarily to apply to the
traditional pattern of lot development and building arrangement generally
prevailing within the village) and in the regulations applying to buildings and
yards, the Village Council may amend this chapter and zoning map for the
accomplishment of the foregoing purposes, in accordance with the following
procedure in §
153.201.
(1995 Code, § 153.200) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.201   DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   For the purpose of accomplishing the objectives of this section, the owner
of any tract of land may submit to the Village Council a preliminary plan for
the use and development of the land. Following submission of the preliminary
plan, the Council shall refer it to the Planning Commission for review. The
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing in accordance with §
153.228, herein. If the Village Council approves the preliminary submission, on
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the preliminary plan shall be signed
by the Village Council and recorded by the applicant, the Council shall amend
the zoning map to include the zoning district change. Within a period of 18
months following such approval, a detailed plan shall be submitted to the
Village Council, showing that specific and detailed provisions have been made
for the essential conditions listed in §
153.203. The detailed plan may be submitted to the Planning Commission and
processed as required by law for the approval of subdivisions. Following the
approval by the Village Council, the Council shall sign the detailed plans, and
the applicant shall cause the detailed plans to be recorded in Hamilton County.
No construction shall commence before a detailed plan is approved, signed, and
recorded.
(1995 Code, § 153.201) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.202   GENERAL CONDITIONS OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The preliminary plan shall show the layout of the total area to be included
in the proposed district and shall indicate and be accompanied by documentary
evidence to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission and Village Council:
   (A)   The plan shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan for the
orderly development of the village and with the purpose of this chapter to
promote the general welfare of the village;
   (B)   The appropriate use and value of property adjacent to the area
included in the plan will be safeguarded;
   (C)   The capacity of existing or proposed utilities, streets, and
thoroughfares is adequate to absorb the additional burden created by the
special use district;
   (D)   The development will consist of a harmonious grouping of buildings or
other structures, adequate service, parking and open spaces, planned as a
single and common operating and maintenance unit, as applicable;
   (E)   The uses included are limited to those permitted in these districts
where the special use district is applicable;
   (F)   All buildings be served by a central sewage disposal system, public
water supply, and public utilities; and
   (G)   That, if the development is to be carried out in progressive stages,
each stage shall be so planned that the foregoing conditions and intent of the
chapter shall be fully complied with at the completion of any stage.
(1995 Code, § 153.202) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.203   SPECIFIC CONDITION OF FINAL PLANS.
   The comprehensive detailed plans and accompanying evidence shall show the
following.
   (A)   Adequate provision is made for safe and efficient pedestrian and
vehicular circulation within the site.
   (B)   The scale of the plan should not be less than 1 inch equals 50 feet
with contours at five feet intervals and indicating any unusual topographical
features.
   (C)   The location, dimensions, and arrangements of all open spaces, yards,
access ways, entrances, exits, off-street parking facilities, loading and
unloading zones, pedestrian ways, widths of roads, streets and sidewalks are
adequate to provide for safe and efficient ingress and egress to and from
public streets and highways serving the development.
   (D)   Capacity of all areas to be used for automobile access, parking,
loading, and unloading.
   (E)   Location, uses planned, dimensions, gross floor area, building
coverage, and height of each building or other structure.
   (F)   Location, dimension, and arrangement of all areas devoted to planted
lawns, trees, recreation, and similar purposes.
   (G)   Provisions made for the location of existing or proposed sewage
disposal, water supply, storm water drainage, parking lot lights, and other
utilities.
   (H)   Sufficient additional data as has been required by the Planning
Commission or Village Council subsequent to the approval of the preliminary
plan to enable the Council to judge the effectiveness of the design and
character of the entire special use district and to consider properly such
things as the relationship to surrounding area, anticipated traffic, public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (I)   A bond or other acceptable assurance for on or off site improvements,
exclusive of the buildings or structures intended for occupancy, rental or use,
which the Village Council deems necessary to protect public health, safety, and
welfare of the neighborhood shall be furnished.
(1995 Code, § 153.203) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.204   TIME LIMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION; REVERSION TO FORMER ZONING
CLASSIFICATION.
   Every application, when approved by the Village Council either as submitted
or resubmitted in modified form, shall constitute an agreement by the applicant
or owner that such installation shall be made, completed and operated as
indicated by the approved plan and in accordance with the provisions of this
section and that the area which has been rezoned shall lose its new
classification and revert to its former zoning classification in any of the
following events.
   (A)   If construction of approved buildings and improvements shall not be
undertaken within 18 months after the approval of the detailed plans or within
such additional time as may be authorized by the Village Council.
   (B)   If there shall be a failure to complete construction or to comply or
to continue to comply with the specified conditions listed in §
153.203 and in this section, or with conditions imposed by the Village Council
hereunder in the zoning of the area.
   (C)   If, as a result of voluntary sale or conveyance, or any other transfer
of ownership whatever, the area shall cease to be held, in its entirety in
single and separate ownership.
(1995 Code, § 153.204) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.210   OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector of the village and such deputies or assistants that
have been, or shall be duly appointed by the village, shall enforce the Zoning
Code, and in addition thereto, and in furtherance of the authority shall:
   (A)   Issue all building permits and certificates of occupancy and make and
maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
   (C)   Maintain permanent and current records of the chapter, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, special uses, variations, appeals, and
applications therefor;
   (D)   Receive, file, and forward to the Planning Commission, all
applications for special uses or petitions for amendments to this chapter which
may be filed initially in the office of the Building Inspector;
   (E)   Receive and transmit to the Zoning Board of Appeals copies of
applications for appeals, variations, and other matters on which the Zoning
Board of Appeals is authorized to decide under this chapter; and
   (F)   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in the exercise of its duties.
(1995 Code, § 153.210) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.211   BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)    (1)   No building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
reconstructed, altered, or razed, nor shall any work be started to erect, move,
reconstruct, alter, or raze until a building permit shall have been applied for
in writing and issued by the Building Inspector, nor shall any change be made
in the use of any building or land without a building permit having been
obtained from the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Satisfactory evidence of ownership of the entire lot shall
accompany all applications for permits under the provisions of this chapter. No
such building permit shall be issued to erect a building or structure or make
any change of use of a building or land unless it is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and all amendments hereto. If the permit is denied,
reasons for the denial shall be provided to the applicant in writing.
      (3)   Unless construction is started within six months after the date of
issuance of a building permit, the building permit shall automatically become
void and fees forfeited. The Building Inspector may reinstate a building permit
that has become void for failure to commence construction without payment of
further fees in his or her discretion. Fees for inspection and the issuance of
permits or certificates or copies thereof required or issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be collected by the Building Inspector in
advance of issuance. The amount of such fees shall be established by resolution
of Village Council.
      (4)   Unless 50% of the construction of the building of structure is
completed within 18 months after the issuance of the building permits, the
Building Inspector may declare such building permit void.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall record all nonconforming uses existing at
the date of this chapter for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of §§
153.170 et seq.
   (C)   (1)   The Building Inspector shall require that all applications for
building permits be accompanied by plans and specifications including a plot
plan, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the following:
         (a)   The actual shape, location, and dimension of the lot drawn to
scale.
         (b)   The shape, size, and location of all buildings or other
structures on it, including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units
the building is intended to accommodate.
         (c)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as
may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are
being observed.
      (2)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building Inspector after he or she shall have marked such copy either as
approved or disapproved. The second copy shall be retained in the office of the
Building Inspector.
   (D)   On completion of the work authorized by a building permit, the holder
thereof shall seek final inspection thereof by notifying the Building
Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 153.211) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968; Am. Ord. 2-25-85, passed
- -)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.212   OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   No land, building, structure, or part thereof shall be occupied or
used, and no building hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied or used,
in whole or in part, for any purpose unless and until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Building Inspector for such new use. No
land, or building shall be occupied or reoccupied, used, or changed in use, now
or hereafter erected or altered, until a certificate of occupancy and
compliance shall have been issued by the Building Inspector stating that the
land or building or proposed use of land or building complies with all the
building or health laws and ordinances and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the continuance of the present
occupancy or use of any existing building, except as may be necessary for
safety of life and property.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy and compliance shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a building permit. The certificate of
occupancy and compliance shall be issued within 21 days after receipt of notice
of completion of erection or alteration of such building, and proof of
compliance with requirements of this and other applicable ordinances.
   (D)   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Building Inspector and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having proprietary or tenancy interest in the property involved. A fee shall be
charged for each original certificate and each copy thereof, the amount of
which shall be established by resolution of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 153.212) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.213   CERTIFICATES FOR DWELLING ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Building accessories to dwellings shall not require separate certificates of
occupancy but may be included in the certificate of occupancy for the dwelling
when shown on the plot plan and when completed at the same time as such
dwelling.
(1995 Code, § 153.213) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.214   APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATES.
   Application for certificates of occupancy shall be made in writing to the
Building Inspector on forms furnished by the Department and such certificates
shall be issued if, after final inspection, it is found that the building or
structure, or part thereof, or the use of land is in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. If such certificate is refused for cause, the
applicant therefor shall be notified in writing of such refusal and cause
thereof.
(1995 Code, § 153.214) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.215   ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF PERMITS.
   If the Building Inspector determines that an application is in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, it will be his or her duty to issue the
appropriate permit, if he or she determines that the application is not in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be his or her duty to
refuse the permit, in which case he or she shall instruct the applicant in the
method of appeal of the application to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1995 Code, § 153.215) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.216   SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The development and execution of the Zoning Code is based on
the division of the village into districts, within any one of which the use of
land and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings or structures, as
related to the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are special uses which, because of their unique character, cannot be
properly classified into any particular district or districts without
consideration in each case of the impact of those uses on neighboring lands,
and on the public need for the particular use of the particular location. Such
special uses fall into two categories:
      (1)   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly-regulated utilities,
or uses traditionally affected with a public interest; or
      (2)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact on
neighboring property or public facilities.
   (B)   Authorization. Special uses shall be authorized only by the Village
Council, provided that no application for a special use shall be acted on by
the Village Council until after a public hearing is scheduled and notice
posted, and thereafter held by the Planning Commission and its findings and
recommendations are reported to the Village Council.
   (C)   Application. An application for special use shall be filed with the
Village Council. The application fee for requesting a special exception permit
shall be $250 per application, plus actual costs incurred by the village for
processing such application. Accordingly, an additional $250 refundable deposit
shall be made for the anticipated costs of processing the special permit
application. The Village Council shall process such applications in the manner
prescribed herein for amendments to this chapter.
   (D)   Standards. No special use shall be granted by the Village Council
unless the special use:
      (1)   Is deemed necessary for the public convenience at that location;
      (2)   Is so designed, located, and proposed to be operated that the
public health, safety, and welfare will be protected; and
      (3)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located.
   (E)   Conditions. The Planning Commission may recommend and the Village
Council may provide such conditions and restrictions on the construction,
location, and operation of a special use, including, but not limited to,
location of points of vehicular ingress and egress, off-street parking and
loading, and building setbacks, as may be deemed necessary to promote the
general objectives of this chapter, and to minimize any injury to the value of
property in the neighborhood. Failure to maintain such conditions or
restrictions as may have been imposed shall constitute grounds for revocation
of the permit for such special use.
   (F)   Expiration of a special exception. Unless otherwise specified by the
Council, a special exception shall expire if the applicant fails to obtain a
building permit or use and occupancy permit, as the case may be, within six
months from the date of authorization thereof.
(1995 Code, § 153.216) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968; Am. Ord. 2016-O-6, passed
6-13-2016)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.225   CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   Pursuant to §
11.04, Lincoln Heights Charter there shall be established and appointed by
Council a Zoning Board of Appeals consisting of five electors of the village
appointed by Council. One of the members shall be a member of the Planning
Commission whose term shall coincide with such member's Planning Commission
term; one of the members shall be appointed for a two year term; two of the
members shall be appointed for a one year term. Thereafter each member shall be
appointed for a four year term. All the members on the Board shall be citizens
of the United States. No elected officer or employee shall be a member of the
Board.
(1995 Code, § 153.225) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968; Am. Ord. 2000-O-25,
passed 4-10-2000; Am. Ord. 2002-O-17, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 153.226   PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect its own Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson,
and secretary.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board shall be heard at the call of the Chairperson
and at such times as the Board may determine by rule. All regular meetings of
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be open to the public. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member
on each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and
shall also keep records of its examinations and other official actions. Every
decision upon which the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to act under this
chapter shall be a public record.
(1995 Code, § 153.226) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.227   APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals based in whole or in part on
the provisions of this chapter may be taken by any person, firm, or corporation
aggrieved or by any governmental officer, department, board, or bureau affected
by the decision of the Building Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken by filing
a notice of appeal with the Zoning Board of Appeals on appropriate forms
provided by the Building Inspector, payment of the required fee, and shall
specify the grounds for such appeal.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit all papers
constituting the records of such appeal to the Board. The Board may require the
applicant to furnish such surveys, plans, or other information as may be
reasonably required, to the Board for the proper consideration of the matter.
On a hearing before the Board, any person or party may appear in person, or by
agent, or by attorney.
(1995 Code, § 153.227) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.228   PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   On the filing with the Planning Commission of an application for a
zoning amendment, a public hearing shall be established and notice thereof
shall be given. The procedure shall be the same as that taken by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time and place for
the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to all persons appearing
on the tax rolls of the village, who have an interest in land on the same
street within 500 feet from the property in question, and on every lot not on
the same street within 300 feet of the lot or building and place all
information on file for public examination, as required by Ohio R.C. § 713.12,
provided that failure to give notice required by this division shall not
invalidate any action taken. On the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney. Provided further, that notice of such hearing together
with a short resume of the petition coming before the Board shall be published
at least once 30 days before the hearing, in one or more newspapers of general
circulation within the village, and that a written notice is served at least 20
days before the hearing on the owners of the properties located adjacent to the
location for which the variation is requested, as required by Ohio R.C. §
713.12.
   (C)   The Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be
made in the premises and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of 3/4 of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Building Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant
any matter on which they are required to, under this chapter, or to effect any
variation in this chapter. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the
Zoning Board of Appeals after notice of appeal shall have been filed with him
or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which shall be granted by the
courts on notice of the Building Inspector and on due cause shown.
(1995 Code, § 153.228) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.229   POWER OF BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
by the applicant that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Building Inspector in the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   Variance. To authorize, on an appeal, a variance from the strict
applications of the provisions of this chapter where by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness, shape, or area of a specific piece of property at the
time of enactment of this chapter or by reason of exceptional topographic
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of such property,
the strict application of the regulations enacted would result in peculiar or
exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional undue hardship on the
owner of such property, provided such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of this chapter. In granting a variance, the Board may attach thereto
such conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
purpose of this chapter. In granting a variance, the Board shall state the
grounds on which it justifies the granting of a variance.
(1995 Code, § 153.229) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.230   APPLICATIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance from the terms of this Zoning Code shall not be granted by
the Zoning Board of Appeals unless and until a written application for a
variance is submitted to the Building Commissioner. The application shall be
signed by the owner or applicant attesting to the truth and exactness of all
information supplied by the application.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Description of the nature of variance requested;
      (4)   A statement demonstrating that the requested variance conforms to
the standards set forth in §
153.226; and
      (5)   A fee as established by Council.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 153.231   STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   A variance from the terms of this Zoning Code shall not be granted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals unless it finds that all of the following standards are
met:
   (A)   The granting of the variance shall be in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of the regulations imposed by this Zoning Code on the
district in which it is located, and shall not be injurious to the area or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;
   (B)   The granting of the variance shall not alter the essential character
of the location;
   (C)   There shall exist special circumstances or conditions, fully described
in the findings, applicable to the land or buildings for which the variance is
sought, which are peculiar to such land and building and do not apply generally
to land or buildings in the area, and which are such that the strict
application of the provisions of this Zoning Code would deprive the applicant
of the reasonable use of such land or building. Mere loss in value shall not
justify a variance; there shall be deprivation of beneficial use of land;
   (D)   There shall be proof of hardship created by the strict application of
this Zoning Code. It is not sufficient proof of hardship to show that greater
profit would result if the variance were granted. Furthermore, the hardship
complained of cannot be self-created; nor can it be established on this basis
by one who purchases with or without knowledge of the restrictions; it shall
result from the application of this Zoning Code; it shall be suffered directly
by the property in question; an evidence of variance granted under similar
circumstances need not be considered;
   (E)   The granting of the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of
the land or building and the variance as granted is the minimum variance that
will accomplish this purpose; and
   (F)   The proposed variance shall not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property, substantially increase the congestion in the public
streets, increase the danger of fire, endanger the public safety, or
substantially diminish or impair property values of the adjacent area.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 153.232   PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEALS OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   Appeals. Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals concerning
interpretation or administration of this Zoning Code may be taken by any person
aggrieved by any zoning decision of the Building Commissioner. Such appeal to
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be taken after the decision of the Building
Commissioner by filing with the Building Commissioner and with the Zoning Board
of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is
being taken. Appeals shall be made in writing accompanied by an application fee
as set by Council. The Building Commissioner shall transmit to the Zoning Board
of Appeals all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   (B)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal
is taken certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal
is filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the application a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property.
In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by restraining order
which may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by a court of record
upon application, or notice to the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal
is taken, on due cause shown.
   (C)   Public hearing by Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals
shall set a public hearing within 20 days after the receipt of an application
for a variance or a notice of appeal. The hearing on the appeal or variance
shall be held within 30 days of receipt of application for the variance or the
notice of appeal.
   (D)   Notice of public hearing in newspaper. Before holding the public
hearing, notice of such hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village not less than ten days prior to the hearing.
The notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing and the
nature of the proposed appeal or variance.
   (E)   Notice to parties in interest. Before holding the public hearing the
applicant shall submit a notification form signed by each record owner of any
property located within 200 feet in any direction of the property upon which an
applicant for an appeal or variance has been filed. The notification form to be
signed by each such property owner shall be available from the Building
Department and shall contain the same information as required of notices
published in newspapers.
   (F)   Authority of Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals may
authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this
Zoning Code as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions of the property, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this Zoning Code would result in unnecessary hardship. No variance shall be
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it is found that all of the
requirements and standards are met. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
uses of land, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance.
   (G)   Action by Zoning Board of Anneals. Within 30 days after the public
hearing the Board shall either approve, approve with supplementary conditions,
or disapprove the application as presented. If the application is approved or
approved with modifications, the Board shall direct the Building Commissioner
to issue a conditional zoning permit listing the specific conditions specified
by the Board for approval. If the application is disapproved by the Board the
applicant may seek relief through the Court of Common Pleas.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 153.233   CERTIFICATES OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board to issue a certificate in any case
wherein a variance is granted.
   (B)   The Board may, at any time, cancel or revoke such certificate, for any
violation of the Zoning Code or conditions imposed.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 153.234   EXPIRATION OF VARIANCES.
   Unless otherwise specified by the Board, a variance shall expire if the
applicant fails to obtain a building permit or use and occupancy permit as the
case may be within six months from the date of authorization thereof.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 153.235   APPEAL TO COURT.
   Any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved or any governmental office,
department, board or bureau affected by the decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, or Village Council, or any taxpayer, or any officer of the village,
within 30 days after any decision of the Board, may appeal to the courts by
filing a complaint duly verified, setting forth that such decision is
arbitrary, capricious and abuse of discretion or otherwise not in accordance
with the law, specifying the grounds on which he or she relies.
(Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-9-2001)
AMENDMENTS, INTERPRETATION, AND VESTED RIGHT
§ 153.240   POWER OF AMENDMENT.
   The Village Council may, from time to time, on recommendation from the
Planning Commission, on its own motion, or on petition amend, supplement,
modify or change this chapter in accordance with the authority of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 713, in accordance with the following procedural outline.
   (A)   All amendment proposals not originating with the Planning Commission
shall be referred by the Village Council to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation before any action is taken.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall study the proposed ordinance amendment
and make written recommendation to the Village Council for approval,
conditional approval, or disapproval. In the course of such study, the Planning
Commission may hold public information meetings on the proposed amendment.
   (C)   On receipt of the Planning Commission's recommendation, the Village
Council shall hold a public hearing thereon per the provisions of Ohio R.C.
Chapter 713, provided, that such hearing need not be held if the Village
Council concurs with Planning Commission recommendations for disapproval.
   (D)   In case a protest against a proposed amendment, supplement, or change
be presented, duly signed by the owners of 20% or more of the frontage proposed
to be altered, or by the owners of 20% or more of the frontage immediately in
the rear thereof, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered, such amendment shall not be passed except by a
3/4 vote of the Village Council.
(1995 Code, § 153.240) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.241   INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
health, safety, morals, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter, on the
use of land or buildings, or on the bulk of buildings, are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provision of this chapter or of any law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or
any other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this
chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than
such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of
this chapter shall govern.
   (D)   No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter shall become or be made lawful solely by
reason of the adoption of this chapter, and to the extent that, and in any
manner that the unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the
requirements of this chapter, the building, structure, or use remains unlawful
hereunder.
(1995 Code, § 153.241) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.242   VESTED RIGHT.
   Nothing in the chapter should be interpreted or construed to give rise to
any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular use,
district, zoning classification, or any permissible activities therein, and,
they are hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change, or
modification as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public
health, safety, and welfare.
(1995 Code, § 153.242) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.997   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When written notice of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
has been served by the Building Inspector on the owner, agent, or occupant,
contractor, or builder, such violation shall be discontinued immediately.
(1995 Code, § 153.997) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.998   REMEDIES.
   In case any building, sign, or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
sign, structure, or land is used, or any hedge, trees, shrub, or other growth
is maintained, in violation of this chapter or any regulations pursuant
thereto, in addition to other remedies provided by law, any appropriate action
or proceeding, whether by legal process or other ways, may be instituted or
taken to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, to restrain, correct, or
abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of that building, structure, or
land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such
premises.
(1995 Code, § 153.998) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
§ 153.999   PENALTY.
   For any and every violation of the provisions of this chapter, the owner,
general agent, or contractor of a building or premises where such violation has
been committed, or shall exist, and the lessee or tenant of an entire building
or entire premises where such violation has been committed, or shall exist, and
the owner, general agent, contractor, lessee, or tenant of any part of the
building or premises in which part of such violation has been committed or
shall exist, the general agent, architect, builder, contractor, or any other
person who knowingly commits, takes part or assists in any such violation, or
maintains any building or premises in which any such violations exist, shall be
liable on conviction thereof to a penalty not exceeding $100; for each and
every offense or suffer to undergo imprisonment for a period of not less than
30 days, and whenever such person shall have been notified by the Building
Inspector by service of summons in a prosecution, or in any other way, that he
or she is committing such violation of this chapter, each day that he or she
shall continue such violation after such notification shall constitute a
separate offense punishable by a like fine or penalty. Such fine or penalty
shall be collected as like fines or penalties are now by law collected.
(1995 Code, § 153.999) (Ord. 68-15, passed 8-22-1968)
CHAPTER 154: TELECOMMUNICATIONS, ANTENNA, TOWER AND SITE REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Intent
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Establishment of Telecommunications District, overlay map and
incorporation into the Zoning Code and zoning map
   
154.04   Other zoning district regulations unaffected except to the extent they
are in conflict
   
154.05   Prohibition unless in compliance with regulations
   
154.06   Use regulations for cellular or wireless communication antenna, towers
or site
   
154.07   Application for permit and procedure to place or operate an antenna,
tower or site
   
154.08   Standards for approval
   
154.09   Permit for placement of micro antenna not attached to tower or site
   
154.10   Permit for placement or operation antennas, towers or sites outside of
Telecommunication District
   
154.11   Variances
   
154.12   Maintenance
   
154.13   Notice of change in ownership; discontinuance of operations and annual
meeting with Village Building Inspector
   
154.14   Continuing use of cellular or wireless communications site;
abandonment
   
154.15   Collocation
   
154.16   Application fees
§ 154.01   INTENT.
   In recognition of the fact that the Village of Lincoln Heights is
approximately .67 square miles in size, that 80% of the village's existing
zoned area consists of small sized and densely spaced residential housing, that
the village is zoned for business and industry, and that by virtue of these
factors there is a very limited area within the village to accommodate
telecommunications antennas, towers and sites as defined herein, it is the
intent of this chapter to:
   (A)   Strike a balance between the demand for cellular or wireless
communications towers and sites while accommodating their location and number
in the village;
   (B)   Minimize adverse visual effects of communications towers and support
structures through proper sitting, design and screening;
   (C)   Minimize any impact on adjacent properties, including but not limited
to diminution in property values, aesthetics, and potential damage from
communications towers and support structure failure; and
   (D)   Require the joint use of any new and existing communications towers
and support structures in order to reduce the number of such structures needed
in the future.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person applying for a permit to place or operate a cellular
or wireless communication antenna, cellular or wireless communication tower, or
cellular or wireless communication site in the Village of Lincoln Heights.
   CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Personal communications accessed by means
of cellular equipment and services including portable cellular or wireless two-
way communications.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA or ANTENNA. Any structure or
device used to receive or transmit electromagnetic waves between cellular
phones, pagers, commercial mobile services, wireless services and ground-wired
communications systems including both directional antennas such as panels,
microwave dishes and satellite dishes and omni-directional antennas such as
whips and other equipment utilized to serve personal communication services.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SITE or SITE. A tract, lot, or parcel of
land containing a cellular or wireless communications tower, cellular or
wireless communications antenna, and any support structures, facilities, or
uses ancillary to cellular or wireless transmission activity.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or
structure accessory to but necessary for the proper functioning of the cellular
or wireless communications antenna or tower, including accessory transmission
and receiving equipment.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWER or TOWER. Any freestanding
structure used to support a cellular or wireless communication antenna
including but not limited to self-supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole with
an elevated cellular or wireless communications antenna.
   CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE. Evidence which is certain and trustworthy to
the extent that it causes the decision maker to have a firm belief or
conviction as to the truthfulness of the facts sought to be established.
   MICRO ANTENNA. Any cellular or wireless communications antenna or tower
which consists solely of an antenna without any additional supporting
structures or ancillary apparatus other than necessary brackets for affixing
the antenna. A MICRO ANTENNA shall not be greater than 25 feet in length or
height and with an antenna area no greater than 580 square inches.
   PERSON. Any business entity, person, individual, or telecommunications
company or operator.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, licensed or
unlicensed wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange access
services including cellular services.
   TALL STRUCTURES. Include, but not be limited to, smoke stacks, water towers,
buildings over 50 feet in height, antenna support structures or other cellular
or wireless communication structures, other communication towers and roadway
lighting poles.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lincoln Heights, Ohio.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS DISTRICT, OVERLAY MAP AND
INCORPORATION INTO THE ZONING CODE AND ZONING MAP.
   (A)   A Telecommunications District is hereby established and the boundaries
are shown and set forth within the Telecommunications District map signed by
the Chairperson and secretary of the Planning Commission and attested by and
filed with the Clerk of Council. The Telecommunications District shall be part
of the Zoning Code and the Telecommunications District map shall be construed
in conjunction with the zoning map, Village of Lincoln Heights, Ohio, as
established in §
153.007 as if fully incorporated into a single map, and shall be used for the
purpose of ascertaining the applicable boundaries and zoning districts within
the Village of Lincoln Heights.
   (B)   Except where otherwise designated by the Telecommunications District
map the district boundary lines are to follow lot lines as they existed at the
time of the enactment of the Zoning Code. If any portion of the district
boundary line does not coincide with lot lines, or where a lot is not
delineated by dimensions, the affected portion of boundary line shall be deemed
to be 100 feet back from the nearest street or roadway line parallel to which
the line is drawn.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.04   OTHER ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS UNAFFECTED EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT
THEY ARE IN CONFLICT.
   (A)   To the extent the regulations of other zoning districts, as set forth
in the Zoning Code and shown in the zoning map, Village of Lincoln Heights,
Ohio, do not conflict with the regulation of cellular or wireless communication
antennas, cellular or wireless communication towers, or cellular or wireless
communication sites, as provided herein such regulations shall remain
unaffected.
   (B)   To the extent the regulations of other zoning districts, as set forth
in the Zoning Code and shown in the zoning map, Village of Lincoln Heights,
Ohio are in conflict with the regulation of cellular or wireless communication
antennas, cellular or wireless communication towers or cellular or wireless
communication sites, as provided herein such regulation shall be superseded by
the regulations herein.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.05   PROHIBITION UNLESS IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   A cellular or wireless communication antenna, cellular or wireless
communication tower, or cellular or wireless communication site shall not be
placed, operated, constructed, affixed or otherwise located within the Village
of Lincoln Heights except as conditionally allowed and permitted by the
telecommunications antenna tower and site regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.06   USE REGULATIONS FOR CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION ANTENNA,
TOWERS OR SITE.
   The following use regulations shall apply to cellular or wireless
communication antennas, cellular or wireless communication towers or cellular
or wireless communication sites:
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by these regulations, a cellular or wireless
communication antenna, cellular or wireless communication site may only be
placed, operated, constructed, affixed, or located in a Telecommunications
District.
   (B)   No cellular or wireless communication antenna, cellular or wireless
communication tower, or cellular or wireless communication site shall be placed
in a Telecommunications District unless the person or applicant requesting the
placement of the antenna, tower or site the obtains a permit from Village of
Lincoln Heights in accordance with the applicable discretionary permitting
process set forth in §§
154.07,
154.08,
154.09, and
154.11.
   (C)   All other accessory uses to any cellular or wireless communication
antenna, cellular or wireless communication tower, or cellular or wireless
communication site including, but not limited to, business offices, maintenance
or storage areas, and vehicle parking spaces, are permitted only to the extent
they are in compliance with the applicable zoning district use regulations
provided within the Zoning Code.
   (D)   No cellular or wireless communication tower shall exceed 250 feet in
total height. The height shall be measured from the base of the tower, at
grade, to the highest point of the tower or site to include any attached
equipment, devices, or other apparatus. Grade shall be determined as the
elevation of the existing ground level topography at the precise location of
the base of the tower prior to construction of the tower.
   (E)   No cellular or wireless communication tower or site shall be closer
than 100 feet to any Telecommunication District boundary line. The 100-foot
distance shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the
base of the tower or site or in the case of the use of guy wires, from the
point where the guy wire is secured, to the closest part of the
Telecommunication District boundary line.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.07   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND PROCEDURE TO PLACE OR OPERATE AN ANTENNA,
TOWER OR SITE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable provision of
Chapter 153 of the Zoning Code, the following permit application process shall
be the exclusive process for any person seeking the placement or operation of a
cellular or wireless communication antenna, tower, or site within the Village
of Lincoln Heights.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued allowing for the placement or operation of a
cellular or wireless communication antenna, cellular or wireless communication
tower, or cellular or wireless communication site within the Village of Lincoln
Heights unless the following permit application process is followed.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of
Chapter 153 of the Zoning Code, any person applying for the placement or
operation of a cellular or wireless communication antenna, cellular or wireless
communication tower, or cellular or wireless communication site within a
Telecommunications District must first arrange a conference with the Village
Building Inspector to provide information regarding the proposed placement
within the village. Any designees of the Village Building Inspector shall also
be permitted to attend the conference. The information shall include a
preliminary plan, which provides a rendering of any proposed tower or site to
scale and in relation to surrounding area.
      (2)   No later than five business days after the conference with the
Village Building Inspector is conducted, as set forth in division (B)(1) of
this section, the applicant shall provide written notice by certified mail, of
the applicant's intent to place or operate a cellular or wireless communication
antenna, cellular or wireless communication tower, or cellular or wireless
communication site to all owners of property whose land is contiguous to and/or
directly across the street from the property on which the applicant intends to
place or operate the antenna, tower, or site. If the notice is unclaimed or
refused, the applicant shall mail the notice by regular mail. All such property
owners and their mailing addresses shall be provided to the village. The notice
shall include:
         (a)   A brief description of the proposed plan to place and operate
the proposed antenna, tower, or site, to include a legal description of all
affected property, the address of all affected property, and the identification
of all streets which are proximate to or in the immediate vicinity of the site
sufficient to identify the particular location and boundaries upon which the
antenna, tower, or site is to be placed or operated;
         (b)   A site rendering or illustration of the proposed antenna, tower,
or site as it would appear upon completion; and
         (c)   A brief statement outlining the necessity, purpose, or intended
use of the proposed antenna, tower, or site.
      (3)   At the next regular Village Council session following the
conference, the Building Inspector shall give notice of the application to
Village Council and shall submit any preliminary plan.
      (4)   Upon receiving notice of the conference and plans, Village Council
shall conduct a special meeting within a reasonable time for the purpose of
making a determination as to whether the proposed plan satisfies the standards
of approval set forth in §
154.08. The special meeting shall provide:
         (a)   A full opportunity for the applicant to make a presentation to
Village Council regarding the proposed cellular or wireless communication
tower, or cellular or wireless communication site including the land and any
issues pertaining to the standards for approval set forth in §
154.08;
         (b)   A full opportunity for the Village Council to submit questions
to the applicant regarding the proposed cellular or wireless communication
tower, or cellular or wireless communication site, including the plans to any
issues pertaining to the standards for approval set forth in §
154.08;
         (c)   A full opportunity for any interested property owners or other
affected persons to address Village Council regarding the proposed cellular or
wireless communication tower, or cellular or wireless communication site,
including the plans and any issues pertaining to the standards for approval set
forth in §
154.08;
         (d)   A full opportunity for Village Council to seek input from the
Village Administration or other retained consultants or experts regarding the
proposed cellular or wireless communication tower, or cellular or wireless
communication site, including the plans and any issues pertaining to the
standards for approval set forth in §
154.08; and
         (e)   A full opportunity for Village Council to deliberate, debate,
and vote on whether to grant a permit to the applicant.
      (5)   Upon the conclusion of the initial special session, Village Council
may conduct such additional special sessions as it may deem necessary so as to
further deliberate, obtain additional information, or conduct additional fact-
finding prior to making its determination as to whether to issue a permit.
      (6)   All Village Council special sessions conducted pursuant to this
section shall provide for the transcription of testimony, a record for any
admitted evidence, and offer the applicant, affected property owners, or other
interested party a full opportunity to appear in person, with an attorney, to:
         (a)   Present positions, arguments, and contentions;
         (b)   Offer and examine witnesses and present any supporting
evidenced;
         (c)   Cross-examine witnesses purporting to refute a position,
argument, or contention;
         (d)   Offer evidence to refute evidence and testimony offered in
opposition to a position, argument, or contention; and
         (e)   Proffer evidence into the record if the admission of it is
denied by Village Council.
      (7)   All testimony adduced before Village Council under this subsection
shall be given under oath.
      (8)   Village Council shall conduct such deliberations in a quasi-
judicial capacity, and not as a legislative body. Such deliberations shall be
conducted in public.
      (9)   Upon making a determination whether to issue a permit pursuant to
this section, Village Council shall place into the record its supporting
findings of fact and conclusions of law.
      (10)   A permit shall be issued only upon a 2/3 majority vote of Village
Council in favor of such issuance. In the event Village Council determines that
a permit shall be issued, it shall incorporate into the permit any conditions
or limitations as it may deem necessary based upon the standards for approval
set forth in §
154.08.
   (C)   In addition to the required public notice for any special Council
meetings held pursuant to this section, the village shall provide written
notice by regular mail of the initial special meeting to all affected owners of
property, as identified by the applicant to the village as provided by division
(B)(2) of this section.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.08   STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   In cases of cellular or wireless communication antennas, cellular or
wireless communication towers, or cellular or wireless communication sites, the
applicant shall demonstrate, within generally accepted telecommunications
industry standards, that there are no other reasonably suitable locations
within the geographic area to be served except for the placement of the antenna
tower or site in the Telecommunication District, to include the follows:
      (1)   The sole feasible method of providing the proposed
telecommunications services is through the utilization of the proposed tower,
site, or antenna; and
      (2)   As opposed to other currently available or feasible
telecommunications technologies, an antenna, tower, or site must be physically
placed or operated at the proposed location.
   (B)   The applicant shall demonstrate, utilizing the most recent
technological evidence, that an antenna, tower, or site must be physically
placed or operated at the proposed location as a necessary component of a
cellular or wireless communications grid system.
   (C)   The applicant shall demonstrate, utilizing the most recent
technological evidence, the non-feasibility of placing an antenna or tower on
existing structures, including the placement of an antenna on any existing or
permitted towers or sites. In cases where the applicant does not propose to
place an antenna or tower on an existing tower or site, the applicant must
demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the antenna or tower cannot
be located on any other tower site, building, or structure in the geographic
area to be served, and that all, reasonable means have been undertaken to avoid
any undue impact caused by the "clustering" of towers or sites within an area,
including any telecommunications districts. The applicant must send a certified
mail announcement to all other existing tower or site operators in the
geographic area to be served stating the applicant's siting needs and/or
sharing capabilities. In determining whether the applicant has met the
requirements of this section, Village Council's determination shall consider
those factors set forth in divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (D)   The applicant shall demonstrate that public safety communications;
including police, fire, and emergency response services communications will not
be negatively affected or otherwise impaired by the operation of the proposed
antenna, tower, or site.
   (E)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the physical design of the
proposed cellular or wireless communications tower and its antenna are safe and
that the surrounding properties will not be negatively affected by tower
structure failure, falling ice or other debris.
   (F)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the cellular or wireless
communications tower is fitted with manufacturer approved anti-climbing
devices.
   (G)   An enclosure fence shall be required around the cellular or wireless
communications tower and any supporting structures unless the antenna is
mounted on an existing structure. The fence shall be a minimum of eight feet in
height and shall be erected to prevent access to non-authorized personnel. The
fence shall be constructed out of chain link. Running along the top of the
fence shall be three separated strands of barbwire.
   (H)   Landscaping shall be required to screen as much of the support
structures as possible, the fence surrounding the cellular or wireless
communications tower or site and in general, to soften the appearance of the
cellular or wireless communications site. A tower or site landscaping proposal
shall include trees, shrubs and other landscaping vegetation. Existing
vegetation, topography, walls, decorative fences or other features may be
incorporated into the landscaping plan.
   (I)   If the antenna is mounted on an existing structure, and other
equipment is housed inside of an existing structure, landscaping shall not be
required.
   (J)   The proposed cellular or wireless communications tower shall be
designed and constructed to accommodate anticipated advances in
telecommunications technology and any anticipated future uses.
   (K)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the tower has been maximized in
design, engineering, and construction to reasonably accommodate other cellular
or wireless communications operators or companies, including collocation
capabilities. The purpose of this section is to minimize the number of towers
in the Village of Lincoln Heights while maximizing the number of uses and
capabilities for any permitted towers and to provide for advances in public
emergency response. Nothing in this section shall forbid the applicant from
requesting adequate and reasonable compensation from any third party user of
the tower.
   (L)   The applicant shall demonstrate that it is currently licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to operate as a telecommunications
service provider.
   (M)    The applicant shall demonstrate that the tower will be painted in a
color scheme which minimizes visual impact while also meeting any applicable
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations. No cellular or wireless
communications towers may be artificially lighted except when required by the
FAA.
   (N)   No cellular or wireless communications antenna, tower, or site shall
contain any signage or advertisement containing a commercial or public message,
solicitation, or other communication.
   (O)   The applicant shall provide a plan for all proposed cellular or
wireless communications towers, and sites at a scale of 1 inch to 20 feet,
indicating as a minimum the following:
      (1)   The total area of the site or tower;
      (2)   The existing zoning of the property in question and of all adjacent
properties;
      (3)   All public and private right-of-way and easement lines located on
or adjacent to the property which is proposed to be continued, created,
relocated or abandoned;
      (4)   Existing topography with a maximum of five foot contour intervals;
      (5)   The proposed finished grade of the development shown by contours
not exceeding five foot intervals;
      (6)   The location of all existing buildings and structures and the
proposed location of the cellular or wireless communications tower and all
cellular or wireless communications support structures including dimensions,
heights, and where applicable, the gross floor area of the buildings;
      (7)   The locations and dimensions of all curb cuts, driving lanes, off-
street parking and loading areas including the number of spaces, grades,
surfacing materials, drainage plans and illumination of the facility;
      (8)   All existing and proposed sidewalks and open areas on the site;
      (9)   The location of all proposed fences, screening and walls;
      (10)   The location of all existing and proposed streets;
      (11)   All existing and proposed utilities including types and grades;
      (12)   The schedule of any phasing of the plan;
      (13)   A written statement by the applicant as to the visual and
aesthetic impact of the proposed cellular communications tower on adjacent
properties;
      (14)   Any other information as may be required by Village Council to
determine conformance with the Village of Lincoln Heights Planning and Zoning
Codes; and
      (15)   The type and number of proposed shrubbery, trees, plants, or
ground cover; the particular location of each proposed shrubbery, tree, plant
or ground cover; the estimated dimensions, including height and width of any
shrubbery, trees, plants, or ground cover at the time of planting; the
estimated dimensions, including height and width of any shrubbery, trees,
plants, or ground cover at the time of their maturity; and the estimated number
of years until full maturity for each type of proposed shrubbery, tree, plant,
or ground cover.
   (P)   The applicant shall demonstrate proof of full compliance with the
notice requirements set forth in §
154.07(B)(2).
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.09   PERMIT FOR PLACEMENT OF MICRO ANTENNA NOT ATTACHED TO TOWER OR SITE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable provision of
Chapter 153 of the Zoning Code the following permit application process shall
be the exclusive process for any person seeking the placement or operation of a
micro antenna, as defined in §
154.02 within the Village of Lincoln Heights.
   (B)   In the event the applicant intends to place or operate a micro antenna
within the Village of Lincoln Heights and the micro antenna will not be
attached to a cellular or wireless communication tower or will not be made part
of a cellular or wireless communication site, the applicant must arrange a
conference with the Village Building Inspector to provide information regarding
the proposed placement within the village. Any designees of the Village
Building Inspector shall also be permitted to attend the conference.
   (C)   At the conference, the applicant shall submit a plan which includes a
rendering of the proposed micro antenna(s) in relation to the neighboring area,
the proposal for attaching, erecting, or placing the micro antenna to existing
structures, buildings, or poles, safety considerations, and the aesthetic
impact on neighboring property owners.
   (D)   In the event the applicant seeks to place or operate a micro antenna
outside of a Telecommunications District, the applicant must demonstrate by
clear and convincing evidence that there are no feasible locations within the
Telecommunications District pursuant to generally accepted telecommunications
industry to engineering standards to place or operate the proposed mico
antenna.
   (E)   The Village Building Inspector shall make a determination to issue a
permit for placement of micro antennas in accordance with the applicable
standards set forth in divisions (C) and (D) above of this section with such
modifications of the plan as may be necessary.
   (F)   In the event the Village Building Inspector does not issue a permit
under this section, the applicant may appeal the determination to Village
Council, which shall conduct a special session and such additional sessions as
it deems necessary in accordance to independently review the decision of the
Village Building Inspector. The review shall be based upon the applicable
standards set forth in divisions (C) and (D) above of this section and a
majority of Village Council may either affirm, overrule, or modify the decision
of the Village Building Inspector. Village Council shall publish its findings
of fact and conclusions of law supporting its review.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.10   PERMIT FOR PLACEMENT OR OPERATION ANTENNAS, TOWERS OR SITES OUTSIDE
OF TELECOMMUNICATION DISTRICT.
   In the event that an applicant requests the placement or operation of a
cellular or wireless communication antenna, cellular or wireless communication
tower, or cellular or wireless communication site outside of a
Telecommunications District, the applicant shall demonstrate:
   (A)   That by clear and convincing evidence there are no feasible locations
within the Telecommunications District pursuant to generally accepted
telecommunications industry to engineering standards to place or operate the
proposed cellular or wireless communication tower, or cellular or wireless
communication site;
   (B)   In addition to the requirements set forth in §§
154.07 and
154.08, the applicant must demonstrate that:
      (1)   The lot size for the proposed antenna, tower, or site is no less
than three acres; and
      (2)   The proposed antenna, tower or site has a minimum set back of 250
feet from the base of the tower or any guy line to the property line.
   (C)   The proposed cellular or wireless communication antenna, cellular or
wireless communication tower, or cellular or wireless communication site will
be situated on a lot which is currently used for an institutional purpose, such
as a school, church, playfield, park, recreational area, or other similar use.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.11   VARIANCES.
   Notwithstanding §
153.216 of the Zoning Code, in the event an applicant or person requests a
variance from any provision of this chapter, the following procedures shall
apply.
   (A)   Where the variance is requested in conjunction with an application to
place or operate an antenna, micro antenna, tower, or site, plans and
information sufficient to make a fully informed decision shall be included with
the permit application. The decision to grant or deny the variance will be
rendered at the same time the requested permit is granted or denied.
   (B)   The procedure for requesting a variance for the placement or operation
of an antenna, micro antenna, tower, or site shall be the same as the
applicable permit procedure set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   The applicable standards used to consider whether to grant the
variance shall be those listed in §
153.216 of the Zoning Code.
   (D)   In order for a variance to be granted pursuant to this section, a 2/
3 majority vote of Village Council in favor of granting the requested variance
shall be required.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.12   MAINTENANCE.
   Any owner of property containing tower or site and any operator or owner of
the tower or site shall maintain such property, structures, and site in good
condition and free from trash, outdoor storage, weeds and other debris. Any
cellular or wireless communications tower or site that has discontinued its
service for a period of six continuous months or more shall be removed along
with all accessory structures related thereto. Discontinued shall mean that the
structure has not been properly maintained, has been abandoned, is obsolete, or
is unused.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.13   NOTICE OF CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP; DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS AND
ANNUAL MEETING WITH VILLAGE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   In the event that there is a change on the ownership of a tower or
site written notice shall be immediately given to the Village Building
Inspector. Such notice shall list the address, principal place of business,
full name, person who shall act as the point of contact with the village with
regard to the tower or site, and that person's business telephone number.
   (B)   In the event that a tower or site will no longer be operated, or its
use discontinued or abandoned, the person operating the tower or site or the
owner of property containing the tower or site shall:
      (1)   Immediately give written notice to the Village Building Inspector
upon making such determination or obtaining such knowledge; and
      (2)   Immediately dismantle and remove the tower or site and:
         (a)   Reclaim the affected portions of the property such that it is
placed back into a condition aesthetically similar to the property's original
and natural condition prior to the placement of the tower or site; or
         (b)   Improve the property for any other permitted use in accordance
with the applicable zoning provisions of the Zoning Code.
   (C)   The Village Building Inspector, at his or her discretion, may conduct
an annual status conference with a representative of the owner or operator of
an antenna, tower or site. The agenda of the meeting may include, but is not
limited to, any issues regarding the ownership, operation, maintenance, and
complaints regarding the antenna, tower, or site.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.14   CONTINUING USE OF CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SITE;
ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   The cellular or wireless communications company or operator shall file
and maintain accurate and current records of any antennas, micro antennas,
towers, sites within the Village of Lincoln Heights with the Building
Inspector. The records shall indicate any additions, deletions, or other
changes in its use.
   (B)   In the event that the village has determined that any tower or site
has been discontinued, has been abandoned, or constitutes a safety or health
violation, the village shall proceed in accordance with Ohio R.C. §§ 715.26 and
715.261, or pursue any other remedies allowed under law.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.15   COLLOCATION.
   (A)   No person owning or operating a tower or site which has previously
been permitted by the village to place the tower or site in the Village of
Lincoln Heights shall unreasonably deny accommodating or collocating the
placement of a third party antenna on the tower or at the site.
   (B)   In cases where an applicant requests placement of an antenna on an
existing tower or site, and the owner or operator of the existing tower or site
opposes any such placement, as part of the special session proceedings for such
application held pursuant to this chapter, both the applicant and person owning
or operating the existing tower or site shall be required to demonstrate within
a reasonable certainty, based upon technological or generally accepted
telecommunications industry standards, the feasibility or non-feasibility of
placing the third party antenna on the tower or site. Such feasibility
considerations shall include whether a tower antenna can or cannot be located
on another communication tower, building, or structure. Village Council shall
consider the space available on the existing structure, the technological
practicality of the collocation, the financial feasibility of the collocation,
and such other factors as Village Council deems appropriate.
   (C)   Village Council shall take into consideration any such evidence as may
provided pursuant to division (B) above of this section, testimony, or other
provided plans or information in making its permit determination under this
chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall impinge upon the right of the person
operating the tower or site to require reasonable compensation from the
applicant for the placement of the third party antenna on the existing tower or
site.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, any person seeking to
collocate or place an antenna on an existing tower, site, or other structure
shall be required to seek a permit as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 154.16   APPLICATION FEES.
   The application fee for requesting the placement of an antenna, micro
antenna, tower, or site shall be $250 per application plus actual costs
incurred by the village for conducting any Village Council special sessions.
The $250 shall be submitted in full at the time of application, and in cases of
applications for antennas, towers, or sites, an additional $250 refundable
deposit shall be made for the anticipated costs of conducting Village Council
special sessions.
(Ord. 97-O-47, passed 11-10-1997)
CHAPTER 155: STORAGE OF WOOD
Section
   
155.01   Intent
   
155.02   Generally
   
155.03   Size of wood
   
155.04   Quantity of wood
   
155.05   Location
   
155.06   Delivery and processing
   
155.07   Exemptions
   
155.08   Existing wood stacks
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01   INTENT.
   The keeping or storage of wood or wood products, not contained in a
building, is permitted only in neat and secure stacks meeting the conditions
listed below.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 155.02   GENERALLY.
   Wood shall include but not be limited to fire wood, lumber and other wood
products, whether rough, precut construction grade or finished.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.03   SIZE OF WOOD.
   Wood stacks shall consist of only individual pieces (no assemblages) not
exceeding 48 inches in its maximum dimension with a stacking height not to
exceed 5 feet as measured from the ground. Wood stacks shall be secured by
racks or other appropriate means to prevent falling.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.04   QUANTITY OF WOOD.
   The maximum of wood allowed to be stored or kept in a single lot is 300
cubic feet.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.05   LOCATION.
   The wood stacks shall not be located in any yard or any setback or court,
except a rear yard or a rear setback. Wood shall not be stored in any vehicle
in the front yard, side yards, rear yard, in public right-of-way except for the
purpose of delivery. Any vehicle containing wood, parked, stopped, or standing
in the front yard, side yards, rear yard or public right-of-way for more than
48 hours in a 72 hour period shall be a vehicle engaged in the storage of wood
in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.06   DELIVERY AND PROCESSING.
   Wood delivered for any purpose, including wood delivered for processing into
firewood, is subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   All wood must be removed to a permanent storage area which is in
compliance with §§
155.03,
155.04, and
155.05 of this chapter within a 72 hour period.
   (B)   Any addition to or modification of wood piles located in the front or
side yards for the purpose of processing shall be considered a continuation of
the wood pile which existed prior to the addition or modification and must be
removed to a permanent storage area along with the existing wood pile within 72
hours of the date of delivery of the original wood pile.
   (C)   No wood shall be delivered, sold or stored for the purpose of sale on
residentially zoned property.
   (D)   The number of wood deliveries shall not exceed four per year.
Deliveries shall be so spaced that there is a minimum of 30 days between
deliveries. Additional deliveries may be authorized by the Village Manager when
requested in writing.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.07   EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from this section:
   (A)   A single stack of fire wood not exceeding 64 cubic feet (1/2 cord or 1
rick) per property and located not more than 48 inches from the principal
building on the lot.
   (B)   Temporary storage of wood being used on an ongoing construction
project on the same property for a maximum of one year provided the wood is
stored on the same property as the approved project and provided the project is
evidenced on a valid building permit.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 155.08   EXISTING WOOD STACKS.
   Any existing wood stack not in compliance on the effective date of this
chapter must be removed or brought into compliance within 72 hours after a
written notice to comply has been served upon the property owner either in
person or by certified mail.
(Ord. 99-O-6, passed 2-8-1999)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.99   PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day's
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 99-O-45, passed 7-12-1999)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
(EDITOR’S NOTE: The following tables are from the 1995 Code of Ordinances.
Ordinances and resolutions affecting these tables passed 1995-2007 are not
included)
Table
   
I.   APPROPRIATION OF PROPERTY
   
II.   DEDICATIONS
   
III.   SALE OF PROPERTY
   
IV.   STREET NAME CHANGES
   
V.   VACATIONS
   
VI.   FRANCHISES
   
VII.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
VIII.   ZONING
   
IX.   BONDS
   
X.   OFFICIAL VILLAGE SEAL
TABLE I: APPROPRIATION OF PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           A fee simple interest in lots 7, 14, 25, and 125 of
76-O-17        4-26-1976   Washington Subdivision, lots 76, 185, 220, and 276
                           of Oak Park Subdivision, and lot 92 of Woodlawn
                           Terrace Subdivision.
                           A fee simple interest in lots 216, 222, 247, 273,
                           and 293 of Cincinnati Industrial Subdivision, lot
                           195 of Grandview Heights Realty Co., lots 24, 25,
77-O-12        3-14-1977   64, and 162 of Lincoln Heights Subdivision, lots 5,
                           55, 56, 78, 79, 108, 125, 126, 127, 143, 144, 145,
                           294, and 295 of Woodlawn Terrace Addition
                           Subdivision, and in certain other parcels of real
                           estate.
                           A fee simple interest in lot 217 of Cincinnati
                           Industrial Subdivision, lots 87 and 99 of Grandview
79-O-10        4-23-1979   Heights Realty Co. Subdivision, lots 23, 26, 65, and
                           163 of Lincoln Heights Subdivision, and in certain
                           other parcels of real estate.
                           A fee simple interest in lots 218 and 236 of
79-O-32        9-10-1979   Cincinnati Industrial Subdivision, lot 77 of
                           Woodlawn Terrace Addition Subdivision, and in
                           certain other parcels of real estate.
79-O-33        9-24-1979   A fee simple interest in lots 319, 320, and 321 of
                           Grandview Heights Subdivision.
                           A fee simple interest in lots 218 and 236 of
79-O-41        11-12-1979  Cincinnati Industrial Subdivision and lot 77 of
                           Woodlawn Terrace Addition Subdivision.
80-O-31        5-12-1980   A fee simple interest in lot 41 at Chester Rd. and
                           Jackson St.
80-O-31        5-12-1980   A fee simple interest in lot 51 of Martin Luther
                           King Estates.
Res. 80-R-60   7-14-1980   A fee simple interest in the Princeton Valley East
                           Building, Kindergarten building, and athletic field.
                           A fee simple interest in block 1, parcels 2 and 4
81-O-18        7-31-1981   and block 2, parcels, 1 - 5 of the Community
                           Development Program.
81-O-25        9-28-1981   A fee simple interest in block 2, parcels 11 and 12
                           of the Community Development Program.
82-O-46        12-27-1982  A fee simple interest in block 3, parcel 3 of the
                           Community Development Program.
Res. 82-R-53   11-22-1982  Appropriating property for the Community Development
                           Block Grant.
83-O-25        11-14-1983  Village Manager to purchase property in the proposed
                           commercial district.
86-O-47        12-17-1986  Purchasing property at 1242 Simmons Street.
Res. 2008-R-74 12-22-2008  Accepting the donation of real property located at
                           1187 Steffen Avenue from Eugene E Wise, Jr.
Res. 2009-R-29 10-13-2009  Authorizing the Village Manager to acquire 1242
                           Adams, 1034 Adams, and 1028 Adams.
 
TABLE II: DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
75-76    9-2-1975    Shepherd Drive.
79-O-40  12-17-1979  Shepherd Drive.
80-O-55  10-15-1980  Magnolia Drive.
 
TABLE III: SALE OF PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
75-9            2-24-1975   Lot 16 to Marie Phillips Kilgore and lot 59 to
                            Myrtis Epps of the Martin Luther King Subdivision.
75-32           4-28-1975   Lot 11 of the Martin Luther King Estates to
                            McArthur Phillips.
75-33           4-28-1975   Lots 57 and 58 of the Martin Luther King Estates to
                            Robert Porter Construction Company.
76-12           4-12-1976   Lot 10 of Block A of the Martin Luther King Estates
                            to Porter Construction Company.
                            Lot 8 to Mr. and Mrs. James Gray, lot 20 to Mrs.
76-O-27         8-27-1976   Christine Shivers, and lot 73 to Rev. and Mrs.
                            Talbert Brown of the Martin Luther King Estates.
                            Lot 14 to Mr. and Mrs. Horace McCarter, lot 71 to
76-O-29         9-13-1976   Mrs. Loretta Warren, and lot 75 to Mr. Willie Waver
                            of the Martin Luther King Estates.
                            Tracts A, D, and E in Sycamore Township and tracts
77-O-11         3-28-1977   B and C in Springfield Township to Mt. Zion
                            Centennial Estate Cooperative Housing Community
                            Urban Redevelopment Corporation.
                            Lot 9 to Mr. and Mrs. Alan L. Brown and lot 51 to
77-O-13         4-11-1977   Mr. and Mrs. Frank Perry of the Martin Luther King
                            Estates.
                            Lot 63 to Charles Ferguson, lot 65 to William
77-O-16         4-11-1977   Anglin, and lots 78 and 79 to William Harris, of
                            the Martin Luther King Estates Subdivision.
77-O-17         4-11-1977   Lot 66 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Mr. and
                            Mrs. Alan L. Brown.
77-O-20         4-25-1977   Lot 64 of the Martin Luther King Estates to
                            Consultant Management Investment, Inc.
77-O-22         4-25-1977   Lot 49 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Mr. and
                            Mrs. Robert Shank.
77-O-23         5-9-1977    Amending Ord. 77-O-11.
77-O-24         6-27-1977   Lots 134 and 135 to Frank and Eula Powers.
77-O-27         6-27-1977   Lots 21 and 23 of the Martin Luther King Estates to
                            Bernice Browning Realty.
77-O-30         8-8-1977    Lot 9 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Mr. and
                            Mrs. Matthew Brady.
77-O-31         8-8-1977    Lot 69 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Mr. and
                            Mrs. William Polk.
77-O-43         10-25-1977  Lot 11 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Mr. and
                            Mrs. Richard Green, Jr.
78-O-4          5-8-1978    1.75 acres of land in the north-east industrial
                            tract to Charles Todd Cleaning Company, Inc.
78-O-5          5-8-1978    Lot 56 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Mrs.
                            Dorothy Martin.
79-O-7          4-23-1979   Lot 38 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Thomas
                            Robinson and Leatha Williams.
                            Lot 3 of the Martin Luther King Section of the
79-O-24         8-13-1979   northeast Industrial Park to Benedict Enterprise
                            Inc. of Monroe, Ohio.
79-O-25         8-13-1979   Lot 173 of the Lincoln Heights Subdivision to Towns
                            Chapel Christian Methodist Episcopal Church.
79-O-26         8-13-1979   Lots 294 and 295 of the Woodlawn Terrace Addition
                            Subdivision to Ms. Anna Perry.
79-O-35         9-24-1979   Lot 30 of the Martin Luther King Estates to Stewart
                            M. and Janice E. Harris.
80-O-16         3-10-1980   Lot 108 of Woodlawn Terrace Addition Subdivision to
                            Charles and Mary Jean Watts.
80-O-40         6-9-1980    Lot 28 of Martin Luther King Estates to James and
                            Millie Starr.
81-O-14         4-13-1981   Enter contract with Village Manager to sell certain
                            parcels to C & H Estates, Inc.
Res. 81-R-54(A) 8-10-1981   Enter contract with Village Manager to sell lot 3
                            of Lincoln Heights Industrial Park.
81-O-20(A)      9-1-1981    Enter contract with Village Manager to sell certain
                            parcels to C & H Estates, Inc.
82-O-12         5-24-1982   Village Manager enter agreement with C & H Estates,
                            Inc. for purchase of various parcels of land.
82-O-13         5-10-1982   Village Manager enter agreement with C & H Estates,
                            Inc. for purchase of various parcels of land.
                            Village Manager to execute option on lot 5B of
82-O-22         5-26-1982   Lincoln Heights Industrial Park and to execute
                            easement agreement.
                            Village Manager to sell lot 1 of Lincoln Heights
82-O-24         5-26-1982   Industrial Park and enter into agreement pursuant
                            to Urban Development Action Grant.
83-O-12         4-25-1983   Sell surplus property.
Res. 85-R-10    3-11-1985   Village Manager to receive $65,211.89 from land
                            sale.
86-O-27         4-23-1986   Mayor to sell lots 15, 23 and 47.
89-O-7          4-26-1989   Conveying real estate to Cincinnati Habitat for
                            Humanity Inc.
90-O-32         6-13-1990   Mayor to execute contract of sale for private
                            redevelopment with Innercity Development Company.
90-O-35         6-27-1990   Purchase of tax delinquent and forfeited
                            nonproductive lands.
90-O-37         7-2-1990    Sale of private redevelopment with L.C.H. Group
                            Company.
90-O-46         9-12-1990   Repurchasing of real estate in Martin Luther King
                            Estate Subdivision.
90-O-57         11-14-1990  Purchase and sell village owned real estate to Ken
                            Stringer, DBA M.G.S Homes Improvements.
90-O-62         12-12-1990  Purchase and sell agreement for real estate to Ken
                            Stringer, DBA M.G.S Homes Improvements.
92-O-40         12-9-1992   Sale of property by auction.
93-O-14         - -         Sale of property by bid.
2015-O-3        2-23-2015   Sale of 19 parcels of real property by bid.
                           
 
TABLE IV: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
77-O-28  4-10-1978   Lockland Rd. and Grant St. changed to Mangham Dr.
80-O-54  10-15-1980  Van Buren St. at the northeast corner of Mangham Dr.
                     changed to Magnolia Dr.
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
75-54     6-25-1975   A portion of Dorothy Avenue, Section 34, Town 4, entire
                      Range 1, Sycamore Township.
77-O-10   3-28-1977   A portion of Wabash Avenue, lot 23, Woodlawn Terrace
                      Addition, Springfield Township.
80-O-43   8-25-1980   Van Buren St., beginning at the southeast corner of Adams
                      and Van Buren Streets.
80-O-43   8-25-1980   Jackson St., beginning at the northeast corner of Adams
                      and Jackson Streets.
80-O-43   8-25-1980   Adams St., beginning at the northeast corner of Grant and
                      Adams Streets.
80-O-43   8-25-1980   Independence Ave. and La Salle St., beginning at the
                      southeast corner of lot 3 Martin Luther King Section 2.
80-O-43   8-25-1980   Chicago Ave. and La Salle St., beginning at the northeast
                      corner of lot 3 Martin Luther King Section 2.
80-O-43   8-25-1980   Congress Ave., beginning at the northeast corner of lot 3
                      of Martin Luther King Section 2.
90-O-44   9-12-1990   Vacating right-of-way of Rose Street and portions of
                      Simmons Street.
91-O-21.1 7-30-1991   Vacating eastern 25 feet of Douglas Avenue.
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
75-87    11-10-1975  Grants to the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company the
                     right to transport gas for a period of 25 years.
75-88    11-10-1975  Grants to the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company the
                     right to transmit electricity for a period of 25 years.
                     Grants to Warner Cable Corporation the right to construct,
79-O-20  7-9-1979    operate, and maintain a cable television system for a
                     period of 15 years.
 
TABLE VII: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
Res. 81-R-30    5-11-1981   Contract with C & H Construction for replacement of
                            sidewalk on Shepherd Lane.
Res. 81-R-31    5-11-1981   Contract with Brewer Company for resurfacing of
                            Shepherd Lane.
Res. 81-R-46    6-22-1981   Agreement with Midwest Insurance Brokers to provide
                            insurance coverage for village.
                            Agreement with Foxx & Company to provide audit
Res. 81-R-47    6-22-1981   services for Community Development Block Grant and
                            Small Cites Programs.
Res. 81-R-58(A) 9-28-1981   Agreement with Clarke Incinerator, Inc for refuse
                            disposal.
81-O-24         10-13-1981  Adopting code of ordinances for the village.
Res. 81-R-61(A) 12-22-1981  Contract with William A. McClain as Director of
                            Legal Services.
Res. 81-R-62    12-22-1981  Contract with William A. McClain as Attorney for
                            Department of Community Development.
Res. 81-R-62(A) 10-21-1981  Agreement with a general contractor for renovation
                            of high school building.
                            Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County
81-O-35         12-14-1981  pursuant to provision of Housing and Community
                            Development Act of 1974.
                            Agreement for demolition of 1400 Rose Street, 1325
Res. 81-R-64    12-14-1981  Jackson Street, 1420 Rose Street and 96000 McIntyre
                            Street.
                            Contract with Claude H. Audley, Jr. as consultant
Res. 81-R-67    12-22-1981  to the Community Development Department in
                            promotion and marketing of the Industrial Park.
83-O-23         10-25-1983  Village Manager to sell lot 3 of Lincoln Heights
                            Industrial Park.
Res. 83-R-49    10-25-1983  Contract with Hamilton County Board of Health.
Res. 83-R-50    10-25-1983  Authorization of Village Manager to sign the Mutual
                            assistance contract.
Res. 83-R-54    11-18-1983  Contact with Centennial Insurance Agency for
                            village's complete insurance coverage.
Res. 83-R-55    12-12-1983  Contract with William A. McClain as Director of
                            Legal Services.
Res. 84-R-7     3-12-1984   Agreement with Lincoln Heights Boxing Club.
Res. 84-R-8     2-27-1984   Agreement with Lincoln Heights Library to aide in
                            continuation of its reading program.
                            Installment agreement and a promissory note with
84-O-11         5-29-1984   the Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company for the
                            payment of utility services for community center.
Res. 84-R-16    5-29-1984   Agreement with Seven Hills Neighborhood Services.
Res. 84-R-28    8-13-1984   Contract with Public Defender Commission.
Res. 84-R-29    8-13-1984   Agreement with District Advisory Council.
84-O-26         11-21-1984  Village Manager to sell lot 5-B.
Res. 84-R-37(A) 12-10-1984  Contract with William A. McClain as Director of
                            Legal Services.
Res. 83-R-57    1-9-1984    Agreement with Ohio Department of Natural Resources
                            to administer a Local Litter Control Grant Program.
Res. 84-R-38    12-10-1984  Contract with William A. McClain as Attorney for
                            Community Development.
Res. 85-R-1     1-14-1985   Agreement with Ohio Department of Natural Resources
                            to administer a Local Litter Control Grant Program.
Res. 85-R-18    5-13-1985   Contract with Hamilton County Board of Health for
                            services to be provided to village.
Res. 85-R-22    6-10-1985   Contract with Young Mens Christian Association for
                            recreational services.
Res. 85-R-45    12-8-1985   Contract with Inspection Bureau, Inc. for
                            electrical inspections.
85-O-34         12-30-1985  Agreement between village and American Federation
                            of State, County, Municipal Employees - AFSCME.
Res. 86-R-8     4-23-1986   Contract with Hamilton County Board of Health for
                            services to be provided to village.
86-O-8          1-8-1986    Contract with William A. McClain to perform
                            services as Law Director.
86-O-10(A)      1-22-1986   Employing Frost & Jacobs as special legal counsel
                            for village.
                            Agreement with Ohio Department of Litter Prevention
86-O-14         2-12-1986   and Recycling for the administration of Local
                            Litter Control Program.
86-O-23         4-23-1986   Agreement between village and Young Men's Christian
                            Association.
                            Agreement with Ohio Department of Litter Prevention
86-O-40         12-17-1986  and Recycling for the administration of the Local
                            Litter Control Program.
86-O-48         12-17-1986  Contract with City of Wyoming for paramedic
                            services.
                            Contract between village and Rumpke Waste, Inc. for
87-O-5          2-25-1987   collection and hauling of garbage and waste
                            material of residents of village.
88-O-18         - -1988     Contract to provide supplementary police protection
                            within neighboring communities.
89-O-13         9-27-1989   Contract with Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company to
                            have and install lumen mercury vapor street lights.
90-O-2          3-14-1990   Agreement with Frost and Jacobs law firm.
90-O-23         5-9-1990    Agreement on behalf of the village with Wendy's
                            Restaurant on Mangham Drive.
90-O-27         5-23-1990   Project agreement for Ohio Local Transportation
                            Improvement Program.
90-O-34         6-13-1990   Contract with Broome Paving, Inc. for resurfacing
                            of Marianna Terrace.
                            Agreement with L.C.H. Group Company, Inc. for
90-O-36         7-2-1990    commercial development of property along Magham
                            Drive.
                            Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County
90-O-38         7-11-1990   pursuant to provisions of the Housing and Community
                            Development Act of 1974.
90-O-39         8-8-1990    Contract with C.D.S. Associates to provide
                            engineering services to village.
90-O-41         9-26-1990   Agreement to employ Frost and Jacobs as special
                            legal council for village.
90-O-47         9-26-1990   Contract with Hamilton County Public Defender
                            Commission fixing the rate of compensation.
90-O-49         9-25-1990   Agreement with L.C.H. General Contractors, Inc.
90-O-58         11-14-1990  Contract with ATEC to remove and dispose of tanks
                            and any contamination.
91-O-6          1-29-1991   Agreement for automatic aid with Villages of
                            Woodlawn and Glendale.
                            Agreement with Young Men's Christian Association
91-O-14         5-15-1991   devising a portion of the Flower Community
                            Building.
                            Agreement for distribution of forfeited monies,
91-O-31         12-11-1991  proceeds from sale of contraband, and mandatory
                            drug fines with the Hamilton County Prosecutor.
96-O-2          2-26-1996   Reenacting Ordinance 96-O-1, adopting the
                            recodification of the Code of Ordinances.
Res. 2008-R-6   1-1-2008    Authorizing an agreement with Annacille Watson as a
                            contract employee in the Mayor’s Court.
Res. 2008-R-7   1-1-2008    Authorizing an agreement with Carnell Mathews as a
                            contract employee in the Finance Department.
Res. 2008-R-9   1-1-2008    Authorizing an agreement with John Andreyko as a
                            contract employee in the Finance Department.
                            Authorizing an agreement with Donald R. Mercer to
Res. 2008-R-10  1-1-2008    perform services of a Building Commissioner as an
                            independent contractor.
                            Authorizing an agreement with the Hamilton County
Res. 2008-R-22  3-10-2008   Regional Planning Commission for the purpose of
                            assisting in the creation of a Comprehensive
                            Development Plan.
                            Authorizing an agreement of cooperation with
Res. 2008-R-29  6-9-2008    Hamilton County pursuant to provisions of the
                            Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as
                            amended.
                            Authorizing an agreement with the Princeton School
Res. 2008-R-30  5-27-2008   District whereby the Lincoln Heights Missionary
                            Baptist Church is to serve as the 2008 Summer day
                            camp provider.
Res. 2008-R-33  6-23-2008   Authorizing an agreement with Pauline Latonya Key
                            as a contract employee in the Mayor’s Court.
Res. 2008-R-54  10-13-2008  Authorizing an agreement with Annacille Watson as a
                            contract Employee in the Mayor’s Court.
                            Authorizing an agreement with Donald R. Mercer to
Res. 2008-R-66  12-22-2008  perform services of a Building Commissioner as an
                            independent contractor.
Res. 2008-R-67  1-12-2009   Authorizing an agreement with John Andreyko as a
                            contract employee in the Finance Department.
Res. 2008-R-68  12-22-2008  Authorizing an agreement with Annacille Watson as a
                            contract employee in the Mayor’s Court.
                            Authorizing an agreement with Carnell Mathews as a
Res. 2008-R-70  12-22-2008  contract employee in the Finance Department as the
                            Tax Administrator.
Res. 2008-R-71  12-22-2008  Authorizing an agreement with Pauline Latonya Key
                            as a contract employee in the Mayor’s Court.
Res. 2008-R-73  2-9-2009    Authorizing an agreement with the City of Wyoming
                            for paramedic services.
Res. 2009-R-15  6-8-2009    Approving employment contract with Robert C.
                            Bannister, Jr. as the Village Manager.
Res. 2009-R-16  6-22-2009   Executing an agreement with Santen & Hughes, LPA
                            and Deepak K. Desai to provide legal services.
Res. 2009-R-36  12-28-2009  Executing an agreement with John Andreyko as a
                            contract employee in the Finance Department.
                            Executing an agreement with Donald R. Mercer to
Res. 2009-R-38  1-1-2010    perform services of a building inspector and Chief
                            Building Official as an independent contractor.
Res. 2009-R-41  12-28-2009  Executing an agreement with Annacille Watson as a
                            contract employee in the Mayor's Court.
                            Executing an agreement with Harold Stewart to
Res. 2010-R-7   1-11-2010   perform services of a deputy inspector as an
                            independent contractor.
Res. 2010-R-9   1-11-2010   Executing an agreement with Carnell Mathews as a
                            contract employee in the Finance Department.
 
TABLE VIII: ZONING
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. 84-R-36 11-26-1984  Authorizing a variance from an R-1 Zoning District.
87-O-45      11-25-1987  Ratifying the approval by Council of the report of the
                         Planning and Zoning Commission.
 
TABLE IX: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing a written request to be directed to the Ohio
81-O-28  10-13-1981  Development Financing Commission for the issuance of
                     approximately $1,800,000 principal amount Industrial
                     Development Revenue Bonds (KMP Partnership Project).
90-O-43  8-27-1990   Issuance of bonds for R/P International's Project.
                     Providing for the issuance of not to exceed $70,000 of
90-O-59  11-28-1990  bond anticipation notes by the village in anticipation of
                     the issuance bond, for the purpose of improving land owned
                     by the village.
 
TABLE X: OFFICIAL VILLAGE SEAL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eab1cfea8dc2c96d3825460c810860caafd27283/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3010.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-O-1, passed 1-28-2013)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
ORC Section Code Section
ORC Section                  Code Section
1.01                         10.01
1.02(A), (B), (F), (G)       10.02
1.05                         10.02
1.14                         10.03
1.15                         10.03
1.23                         10.05
1.42                         10.03
1.43                         10.03
1.44                         10.02
1.45                         10.03
1.50                         10.07
1.57                         10.04
1.58                         10.04
1.59(B), (C), (J)            10.02
128.01(A)                    136.22
128.32(E) - (G)              136.22
128.99(A), (B)               136.22
701.01(A)-(C), (E)-(G)       10.02
715.261                      93.05
715.30                       93.05
715.47                       93.28
715.67                       130.99
718.01                       39.22
719.012                      93.05
723.011                      95.11
723.012                      95.13
723.04                       95.40
723.041                      95.45
723.05                       95.41
723.06                       95.42
723.07                       95.43
723.08                       95.44
729.01                       95.25
729.02                       95.26
729.03                       95.27
729.04                       95.28
729.05                       95.29
729.07                       95.30
729.08                       95.30
729.09                       95.30
729.10                       95.30
729.12                       95.12
731.51                       93.41
731.52                       93.42
731.53                       93.43
731.54                       93.44
737.022(G)                   76.16
737.23                       34.03
737.24                       34.04
737.25                       34.05
737.29                       33.50,
                             33.51
737.31                       33.52
737.32                       33.53
901.51                       131.21
901.99(A)                    131.21
1349.17                      131.31
1349.99                      131.31
1533.161                     139.05
1533.171(A)                  131.24,
                             135.05
1533.99(C)                   131.24,
                             135.05
2151.011                     132.17
2151.02                      132.17
2901.01                      130.02
2901.02                      130.03
2901.03                      130.04
2901.04                      130.04
2901.05                      130.14
2901.06                      130.15
2901.08                      130.16
2901.09                      130.22
2901.11                      130.16
2901.13                      130.06
2901.21                      130.07
2901.22                      130.08
2901.23                      130.09
2901.24                      130.10
2903.05                      135.02
2903.06                      135.03
2903.09                      135.01
2903.10                      135.20
2903.13                      135.04
2903.14                      135.04
2903.16                      135.20
2903.21                      135.06
2903.211                     135.06
2903.22                      135.06
2903.31                      135.17
2903.33                      135.21
2903.34                      135.21
2903.341                     135.21
2903.35                      135.21
2903.36                      135.21
2905.03                      135.07
2905.05                      135.08
2905.12                      135.09
2907.01                      133.01
2907.04                      133.01
2907.06                      133.03
2907.08                      133.05
2907.09                      133.04
2907.10                      133.06
2907.23                      133.07
2907.24(A), (C)(1), (D), (E) 133.08
2907.241                     133.08
2907.25                      133.09
2907.26                      133.13
2907.31                      133.10
2907.311                     133.11
2907.33                      133.12
2907.35                      133.10
2907.36                      133.14
2907.37                      133.15
2907.38                      133.16
2907.39                      133.17
2907.40                      133.18
2909.01                      131.01
2909.03                      131.02
2909.06                      131.03
2909.07                      131.04
2909.08(A)-(E)               131.05
2909.09                      131.03
2909.11(B)-(D)               131.02
2909.31                      136.23
2911.21                      131.06
2911.211                     131.06
2911.23                      131.06
2911.32                      131.07
2913.01                      131.01
2913.02                      131.08
2913.03                      131.09
2913.04                      131.10
2913.07                      131.33
2913.11                      131.11
2913.21                      131.12
2913.31(B),(C)(2)            131.28
2913.32                      131.29
2913.33                      131.13
2913.34                      131.30
2913.40                      131.23
2913.401                     131.23
2913.41                      131.14
2913.42                      131.15
2913.43                      131.16
2913.44                      132.10
2913.441                     132.11
2913.45                      131.17
2913.47                      131.23
2913.48                      131.23
2913.51                      131.18
2913.61(B)-(E)               131.19
2913.71                      131.20
2913.72                      131.27
2913.73                      131.27
2915.01                      134.01
2915.02                      134.02
2915.03                      134.03
2915.04                      134.04
2915.05                      134.05
2915.06                      134.14
2915.09                      134.06
2915.091                     134.10
2915.092                     134.11
2915.093                     134.12
2915.094                     134.13
2915.10                      134.07
2915.11                      134.08
2915.12                      134.09
2915.13                      134.12
2917.01                      132.22
2917.03                      132.01
2917.031                     132.01
2917.04                      132.02
2917.05                      132.02
2917.11                      132.04
2917.12                      132.05
2917.13                      132.06
2917.21                      132.07
2917.31                      132.08
2917.32                      132.09
2917.40                      132.16
2917.41                      132.21
2919.01                      135.10
2919.11                      135.11
2919.12                      135.11
2919.121                     135.11
2919.122                     135.11
2919.14                      135.12
2919.18                      135.11
2919.21                      135.13
2919.22(A)-(E),(H)           135.14
2919.23                      135.15
2919.231                     135.15
2919.24                      135.18
2919.25                      135.16
2919.27                      135.22
2921.01                      136.01
2921.04                      136.19
2921.13                      136.02
2921.14                      136.14
2921.15                      136.21
2921.21                      136.03
2921.22                      136.04
2921.23                      136.05
2921.24                      136.18
2921.25                      136.18
2921.29                      136.23
2921.31                      136.06
2921.32                      136.07
2921.321                     136.15
2921.33                      136.08
2921.331(A)-(C),(E),(F)      70.02
2921.36                      136.13
2921.37                      136.13
2921.42                      136.09
2921.43                      136.10
2921.44                      136.11
2921.45                      136.12
2921.51                      132.12
2921.52(A)-(D)               136.20
2923.02                      130.11
2923.03                      130.12
2923.11                      91.01
2923.43                      93.03
2925.01                      138.01
2925.03                      138.02
2925.04                      138.06
2925.11                      138.03
2925.12                      138.04
2925.13                      138.05
2925.14                      138.13
2925.31                      138.07
2925.32(B)(4),(D)(2),(F),(G) 138.10
2925.33                      138.10
2925.36                      138.08
2925.37(A),(G),(M)           138.12
2925.50                      138.09
2925.51                      138.11
2925.511                     138.11
2925.55                      138.19
2925.56                      138.19
2925.57                      138.19
2925.58                      138.19
2927.01                      139.01
2927.02                      135.24
2927.021                     135.24
2927.022                     135.24
2927.023                     135.24
2927.03                      139.03
2927.12                      139.04
2927.15                      135.27
2927.17                      133.19
2927.27                      130.21
2929.21                      130.99
2929.22                      130.19
2929.23                      133.99
2929.24                      130.99
2929.25                      130.99
2929.26                      130.99
2929.27                      130.99
2929.28                      130.99
2929.31                      130.99
2929.41                      130.20
2935.041                     131.22
2935.28                      70.08
2935.36(E)                   130.02
2981.07                      131.34
2981.11                      130.18
2981.12                      130.18
2981.13(A)                   130.18
3109.09                      132.17
3109.10                      132.17
3701.81                      135.26
3701.82                      91.39
3701.99(B)                   91.39
3701.99(C)                   135.26
3715.05                      138.19
3715.06                      138.19
3716.11                      135.23
3716.99(C)                   135.23
3719.01                      138.01
3719.011                     138.01
3719.013                     138.01
3719.08(A),(E)               138.15
3719.172(A),(B)              138.16
3719.19                      138.09
3719.99(C)                   138.15
3719.99(E)                   138.16
3737.14(B)                   34.12
3737.51(A)                   91.36
3737.61                      91.37
3737.62                      91.38
3737.63                      91.39
3737.99(B)                   91.36
3737.99(C)                   91.37
3737.99(D)                   91.38
3737.99(E)                   91.39
3743.01                      91.01
3743.25                      91.10
3743.54                      91.03
3743.60(E)-(J)               91.04
3743.61(E)-(J)               91.04
3743.63                      91.05
3743.64(C)-(G)               91.06
3743.65(A)-(F)               91.02
3743.66                      91.07
3743.68                      91.09
3743.80                      91.08
3743.99(C),(D)               91.99
3767.01                      93.02
3767.02                      93.03
3767.07                      93.03
3767.13                      93.04
3767.16                      93.23
3767.18                      93.23
3767.201                     70.09
3767.29                      93.26
3767.32                      93.27
3767.99                      93.99
3767.99(A)                   93.03
3767.99(B)                   93.26
3767.99(C)                   93.04,
                             93.27
3767.99(D)                   93.23,
                             70.09
3781.107                     91.34
3781.108(A),(B)              91.35
3781.55                      133.04
3791.02                      91.34,
                             91.35
3791.03                      91.34,
                             91.35
3791.031                     135.25
4301.01                      92.01
4301.20                      92.02
4301.21                      92.03
4301.22                      92.04
4301.244                     92.01
4301.58                      92.05
4301.60                      92.06
4301.61                      92.28
4301.611                     92.29
4301.62                      92.07
4301.63                      92.08
4301.631                     92.09
4301.633                     92.11
4301.634                     92.12
4301.637                     92.14
4301.638                     92.04,
                             92.13
4301.639(A),(C)              92.15
4301.64                      92.16
4301.65                      92.10
4301.66                      92.18
4301.67                      92.19
4301.68                      92.20
4301.69                      92.13
4301.70                      92.99
4301.74                      92.27
                             92.07,
4301.99(A)                   92.10,
                             92.99
                             92.04,
4301.99(B)                   92.09,
                             92.16,
                             92.19
                             92.03,
                             92.05,
                             92.06,
4301.99(C)                   92.11,
                             92.13,
                             92.18,
                             92.20,
                             92.27
4301.99(D),(H)               92.04
4301.99(E)                   92.08,
                             92.09
4301.99(F)                   92.12
4301.99(I)                   92.13
4301.99(J)                   92.10
4303.202(D)(2)               92.17
4303.208(C)                  92.17
4303.25                      92.05
4303.40                      92.26
4303.99(D)                   92.17
4399.09                      92.21
4399.10                      92.22
4399.14                      92.23
4399.15                      92.24
4399.16                      92.25
4399.99(A)                   92.25
4399.99(B)                   92.21
4399.99(C)                   92.22
4399.99(D)                   92.23
4399.99(E)                   92.24
4501.01(LL)                  70.01
4501.01(TT)                  72.41
4503.05                      71.01
4503.11(A), (D)              71.01
4503.111                     71.01
4503.181                     93.66
4503.21                      71.01
4503.236                     71.03
4505.18                      71.04
4506.01                      71.25
4506.011                     71.26
4506.03(A)-(D)               71.28
4506.04(A)-(C)               71.27
4506.05(A)-(D)               71.28
4506.10(A),(E)               71.29
4506.12(I), (J)              71.27
4506.15                      71.30
4506.17(H), (N)              71.30
4506.19                      71.31
4506.20                      71.32
4506.23                      71.30
4506.99                      71.99
4507.02(A)                   71.12
4507.03                      71.12
4507.04                      71.12
4507.05(F), (I)              71.11
4507.071(B)-(J)              71.11
4507.30                      71.10
4507.31                      71.11
4507.321                     71.13
4507.35                      71.16
4507.36                      71.17
4507.99                      71.99
4509.102                     136.02
4509.74                      73.23
                             71.18,
4510.04                      71.20 -
                             71.22
4510.037(J)                  71.18
4510.05                      71.15
4510.11                      71.18
4510.111                     71.18
4510.12                      71.19
4510.14                      71.20
4510.15                      71.15
4510.16                      71.21
4510.21                      71.22
4510.44                      73.03
4511.01                      70.01
4511.03                      70.03
4511.031                     70.29
4511.04                      70.04
4511.041                     70.04
4511.042                     70.04
4511.05                      70.05
4511.051                     70.06
4511.08                      70.07
4511.12                      70.20
4511.121                     70.20
4511.13                      70.21
4511.131                     70.22
4511.132                     70.23
4511.14                      70.24
4511.16                      70.26
4511.17                      70.27
4511.18                      70.27
4511.181                     73.01
4511.19(A)-(M)               73.01
4511.191(A)                  73.011
4511.191(D)                  73.011
4511.192                     73.011
4511.194                     73.012
4511.20                      73.05
4511.201                     73.06
4511.202                     73.07
4511.203                     71.14
4511.204                     72.71
4511.205                     72.72
4511.21(A)-(G), (O), (P)     73.10
4511.211                     73.10
4511.213                     72.60
4511.214                     73.041
4511.215                     73.041
4511.216                     73.041
4511.22                      73.11
4511.23                      73.14
4511.24                      73.12
4511.25                      72.01
4511.251                     73.13
4511.26                      72.03
4511.27                      72.04
4511.28                      72.05
4511.29                      72.06
4511.30                      72.07
4511.31                      72.08
4511.32                      72.09
4511.33                      72.10
4511.34                      72.11
4511.35                      72.12
4511.36                      72.13
4511.37                      72.14
4511.38                      72.15
4511.39                      72.16
4511.40                      72.17
4511.41                      72.20
4511.42                      72.21
4511.43                      72.22
4511.431                     72.23
4511.432                     72.23
4511.44                      72.24
4511.441                     72.25
4511.45                      72.26
4511.451                     72.27
4511.452                     72.28
4511.454                     72.26
4511.46                      72.29
4511.47                      72.30
4511.48                      72.31
4511.481                     72.40
4511.49                      72.35
4511.491                     72.39
4511.50                      72.36
4511.51                      72.37
4511.511                     72.38
4511.512                     72.41
4511.513                     72.43
4511.52                      75.01
4511.521                     75.02
4511.53                      75.03
4511.54                      75.04
4511.55                      75.05
4511.56                      75.06
4511.61                      72.45
4511.62                      72.46
4511.63                      72.47
4511.64                      72.48
4511.65                      70.10
4511.66                      76.01
4511.661                     76.02
4511.67                      76.02
4511.68                      76.04
4511.681                     76.06
4511.69                      76.05
4511.70                      72.55
4511.701                     72.56
4511.71                      72.57
4511.711                     72.58
4511.712                     72.59
4511.713                     72.58
4511.714                     72.57
4511.72                      72.60
4511.73                      72.61
4511.74                      72.62
4511.75                      72.80
4511.751                     72.81
4511.76(C),(E),(F)           72.82
4511.761                     72.83
4511.762                     72.84
4511.763                     72.85
4511.764                     72.86
4511.77                      72.87
4511.771                     72.88
4511.772                     72.89
4511.79                      73.02
4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L)     72.63
4511.82                      72.62
4511.84                      72.66
4511.85                      72.67
4511.99                      70.99
4513.02(A),(H)               74.01
4513.021                     74.02
4513.03                      74.03
4513.04                      74.04
4513.05                      74.05
4513.06                      74.06
4513.07                      74.07
4513.071                     74.08
4513.08                      74.09
4513.09                      74.10
4513.10                      74.11
4513.11                      74.12
4513.111                     74.12
4513.12                      74.13
4513.13                      74.14
4513.14                      74.15
4513.15                      74.16
4513.16                      74.17
4513.17                      74.18
4513.171                     74.18
4513.18                      74.19
4513.181                     74.20
4513.182                     74.21
4513.19                      74.22
4513.20                      74.23
4513.201                     74.24
4513.202                     74.25
4513.21                      74.26
4513.22                      74.27
4513.23                      74.28
4513.24                      74.29
4513.241(C)-(K)              74.31
4513.25                      74.30
4513.26                      74.31
4513.261                     74.32
4513.262                     74.33
4513.263                     72.64
4513.27                      74.34
4513.28                      74.35
4513.29                      74.36
4513.30                      74.41
4513.31                      74.41
4513.32                      74.43
4513.33                      74.44
4513.34                      74.40
4513.36                      73.15
4513.361                     73.16
4513.50                      74.38
4513.51(A), (B), (D)         74.38
4513.62                      93.71
4513.63                      93.66,
                             93.71
4513.64                      93.73
4513.66                      70.12
4513.68                      70.12
                             74.11,
                             74.21,
                             74.23 -
                             74.25,
                             74.30,
4513.99                      74.31,
                             74.34,
                             74.36,
                             74.40,
                             74.41,
                             74.43
4519.01                      75.25
4519.02                      75.34
4519.04(B)                   75.35
4519.20                      75.26
4519.22                      75.26
4519.40                      75.27
4519.401                     73.041
4519.41                      75.28
4519.44                      75.29
4519.45                      75.30
4519.46                      75.31
4519.47                      75.31
4519.48                      75.33
4519.66                      75.36
4549.02                      73.20
4549.021                     73.21
4549.03                      73.22
4549.05                      70.11
4549.08                      71.06
4549.081(B), (C)             70.20
4549.10                      71.07
4549.11                      71.01
4549.12                      71.01
4549.18                      71.05
4549.20                      74.39
4729.01                      138.01
4731.481                     138.18
4731.99(F)                   138.18
4734.161                     138.18
4734.99(B)                   138.18
4933.18                      131.32
4933.19                      131.32
5321.01                      132.17
5577.02                      74.45
5577.03                      74.46
5577.04                      74.46
5577.041                     74.46
5577.042                     74.51
5577.043                     74.51
5577.044                     74.51
5577.05                      74.47
5577.06                      74.47
5577.10                      74.48
5577.11                      74.49
5577.12                      74.50
5577.15                      74.43
5577.99(A)                   74.45
5577.99(C)                   74.46,
                             74.47
5577.99(D)                   74.48
5577.99(E)                   74.49
5589.02                      95.13
5589.08                      72.68
5589.081                     74.37
5589.12                      131.10
                             72.68,
5589.99(B)                   74.37,
                             95.13,
                             131.10
5739.01(M))                  91.34
                             
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code Section 2008 Code Section
1995 Code Section 2008 Code Section
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
30.03             30.03
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.04             31.04
31.05             31.05
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.22             33.22
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.15             33.15
33.16             33.16
33.17             33.17
33.18             33.18
33.19             33.19
33.20             33.20
33.21             33.21
33.23             33.23
33.35             33.35
33.36             33.36
33.37             33.37
33.38             33.38
33.45             33.45
33.50             33.50
33.51             33.51
33.52             33.52
33.53             33.53
34.01             34.01
34.02             34.02
34.03             34.03
34.04             34.04
34.05             34.05
34.06             34.06
34.07             34.07
34.08             34.08
34.09             34.09
34.10             34.10
34.11             34.11
35.01             35.01
35.02             35.02
35.03             35.03
35.04             35.04
35.05             35.05
35.06             35.06
35.07             35.07
35.09             35.09
35.11             35.10
36.01             36.01
36.02             36.02
36.03             36.03
36.04             36.04
36.05             36.05
36.06             36.06
37.01             37.01
37.02             37.02
37.03             37.03
37.04             37.04
37.05             37.05
37.06             37.06
37.07             37.07
37.08             37.08
37.09             37.09
37.10             37.10
37.12             37.12
37.13             37.13
37.14             37.14
37.15             37.15
37.16             37.16
37.17             37.17
37.18             37.18
37.19             37.19
37.20             37.20
37.21             37.21
37.23             37.23
37.24             37.24
37.25             37.25
37.26             37.26
37.27             37.27
37.28             37.28
37.29             37.29
37.30             37.30
37.31             37.31
37.32             37.32
37.33             37.33
37.34             37.34
37.35             37.35
37.36             37.36
37.37             37.37
37.38             37.38
37.39             37.39
37.40             37.40
37.41             37.41
37.42             37.42
38.001            38.001
38.002            38.002
38.003            38.003
38.015            38.015
38.016            38.016
38.017            38.017
38.018            38.018
38.019            38.019
38.020            38.020
38.021            38.021
38.030            38.030
38.031            38.031
38.032            38.032
38.040            38.040
38.041            38.041
38.042            38.042
38.050            38.050
38.051            38.051
38.052            38.052
38.053            38.053
38.054            38.054
38.055            38.055
38.056            38.056
38.057            38.057
38.065            38.065
38.066            38.066
38.067            38.067
38.068            38.068
38.069            38.069
38.070            38.070
38.071            38.071
38.072            38.072
38.073            38.073
38.074            38.074
38.075            38.075
38.085            38.085
38.086            38.086
38.087            38.087
38.088            38.088
38.089            38.089
38.090            38.090
38.091            38.091
38.092            38.092
38.093            38.093
38.094            38.094
38.095            38.095
38.105            38.105
38.106            38.106
38.107            38.107
38.108            38.108
38.109            38.109
38.110            38.110
38.111            38.111
38.120            38.120
38.121            38.121
38.122            38.122
38.123            38.123
38.124            38.124
38.125            38.125
38.126            38.126
38.127            38.127
38.128            38.128
38.129            38.129
38.130            38.130
38.140            38.140
38.141            38.141
38.142            38.142
38.143            38.143
38.144            38.144
38.145            38.145
38.146            38.146
38.147            38.147
38.148            38.148
38.149            38.149
38.150            38.150
39.01             39.01
39.02             39.02
39.03             39.03
39.04             39.04
39.05             39.05
39.06             39.06
39.07             39.07
39.08             39.08
39.09             39.09
39.10             39.10
39.11             39.11
39.12             39.12
39.13             39.13
39.14             39.14
39.20             39.20
39.21             39.21
39.22             39.22
39.23             39.23
39.24             39.24
39.25             39.25
39.26             39.26
39.27             39.27
39.28             39.28
39.29             39.29
39.30             39.30
39.31             39.31
39.32             39.32
39.33             39.33
39.99             39.99
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.04             70.04
70.041            70.04
70.05             70.05
70.06             70.06
70.07             70.07
70.08             70.08
70.10             70.20
70.11             70.21
70.12             70.22
70.121            70.23
70.13             70.24
70.15             70.26
70.16             70.27
70.17             70.30
70.18             70.31
70.19             70.32
70.20             70.33
70.21             70.34
70.22             70.35
70.23             70.36
70.24             70.37
70.25             70.38
70.26             70.39
70.27             70.40
70.28             70.41
70.98             70.98
70.99             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.12
71.05             71.10
71.06             71.11
71.08             71.13
71.09             71.14
71.10             71.15
71.11             71.16
71.12             71.17
71.13             71.18 -
                  71.20
71.99             71.99
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.03             72.03
72.04             72.04
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.07
72.08             72.08
72.09             72.09
72.10             72.10
72.11             72.11
72.12             72.12
72.13             72.13
72.14             72.14
72.15             72.15
72.16             72.16
72.17             72.17
72.20             72.20
72.21             72.21
72.22             72.22
72.23             72.23
72.24             72.24
72.25             72.25
72.26             72.26
72.27             72.27
72.28             72.28
72.29             72.29
72.30             72.30
72.31             72.31
72.32             72.40
72.35             72.35
72.36             72.36
72.37             72.37
72.38             72.38
72.39             72.39
72.40             72.42
72.45             72.45
72.46             72.46
72.47             72.47
72.48             72.48
72.49             72.49
72.50             70.10
72.55             72.55
72.56             72.56
72.57             72.57
72.58             72.58
72.59             72.59
72.60             72.60
72.61             72.61
72.62             72.62
72.621            72.62
72.63             72.63
72.64             72.64
72.65             72.80
72.651            72.81
72.66             72.82
72.67             72.83
72.68             72.84
72.69             72.85
72.70             72.86
72.71             72.87
72.72             72.88
72.73             72.89
72.80             72.95
72.81             72.96
72.82             72.97
72.83             72.98
72.84             72.99
73.01             73.01
73.011            73.011
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.012
73.04             73.04
73.05             73.05
73.06             73.06
73.07             73.07
73.10             73.10
73.11             73.11
73.12             73.12
73.13             73.13
73.15             73.15
73.16             73.16
73.20             73.20
73.21             73.21
73.22             73.22
73.23             73.24
73.25             71.08
73.26             70.11
73.27             71.06
73.28             71.07
73.29             71.01
73.30             71.01
73.40             73.40
73.41             73.41
73.42             73.42
73.43             73.43
73.44             73.44
73.45             73.45
73.99             73.99
74.01             74.01
74.02             74.02
74.03             74.03
74.04             74.04
74.05             74.05
74.06             74.06
74.07             74.07
74.08             74.08
74.09             74.09
74.10             74.10
74.11             74.11
74.12             74.12
74.13             74.13
74.14             74.14
74.15             74.15
74.16             74.16
74.17             74.17
74.18             74.18
74.19             74.19
74.20             74.20
74.21             74.21
74.22             74.22
74.23             74.23
74.24             74.24
74.25             74.25
74.26             74.26
74.27             74.27
74.28             74.28
74.29             74.29
74.30             74.30
74.31             74.31
74.32             74.32
74.33             74.33
74.34             74.34
74.35             74.35
74.36             74.36
74.37             74.49
74.38             74.47
74.40             74.40
74.41             74.52
74.42             74.42
74.43             74.43
74.44             74.53
74.45             74.54
74.55             74.55
74.56             74.56
74.642            72.66
75.01             75.01
75.02             75.02
75.03             75.03
75.04             75.04
75.05             75.05
75.06             75.06
75.07             75.07
76.01             76.01
76.02             76.02
76.03             76.03
76.04             76.04
76.05             76.05
76.06             76.07
76.07             76.08
76.08             76.09
76.09             76.10
76.10             76.11
76.11             76.12
76.12             76.13
76.13             76.14
76.14             76.15
76.15             76.16
76.16             76.17
76.17             76.18
76.18             76.19
76.19             76.20
76.20             76.21
76.21             76.22
76.22             76.23
76.23             76.24
76.24             76.25
76.25             76.26
76.26             76.27
76.27             76.28
76.28             76.29
76.29             76.30
Ch. 77, Sched. I  Ch. 77, Sch. I
Ch. 77, Sched. II Ch. 77, Sch. II
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.20
91.05             91.21
91.06             91.30
91.07             91.31
91.08             91.32
91.09             91.33
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.06             92.06
92.07             92.07
92.08             92.08
92.09             92.09
92.11             92.11
92.12             92.12
92.14             92.14
92.15             92.15
92.16             92.16
92.18             92.18
92.19             92.19
92.20             92.20
92.21             92.13
92.22             92.21
92.23             92.22
92.24             92.23
92.25             92.24
92.26             92.25
92.29             92.27
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.06
93.05             93.07
93.10             93.10
93.11             93.11
93.12             93.12
93.13             93.13
93.14             93.14
93.20             93.20
93.21             93.21
93.22             93.22
93.23             93.23
93.24             93.24
93.25             93.25
93.27             93.27
93.28             93.28
93.29             93.29
93.40             93.40
93.41             93.41
93.42             93.42
93.43             93.43
93.44             93.44
93.50             93.50
93.51             93.51
93.52             93.52
93.53             93.53
93.54             93.54
93.55             93.54
93.56             93.56
93.65             93.65
93.66             93.66
93.67             93.67
93.68             93.68
93.69             93.69
93.70             93.70
93.71             93.71
93.72             93.72
93.73             93.73
93.74             93.74
93.75             93.75
93.99             93.99
94.99             94.99
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
95.04             95.04
95.05             95.05
95.06             95.06
95.07             95.07
95.08             95.08
95.09             95.09
95.10             95.10
95.11             95.11
95.12             95.12
95.13             95.13
95.99             95.99
110.01            110.01
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06,
                  110.25
110.07            110.07
110.20            110.20
110.21            110.21
110.22            110.22
110.24            110.24
110.26            110.26
110.27            110.27
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.04            111.04
111.05            111.05
111.06            111.06
111.07            111.07
111.08            111.08
111.09            111.09
111.10            111.10
111.99            111.99
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.03
112.04            112.04
112.05            112.05
112.06            112.06
112.07            112.07
112.08            112.08
112.09            112.09
112.10            112.10
112.11            112.11
112.12            112.12
112.13            112.13
112.14            112.14
112.15            112.15
112.16            112.16
112.17            112.17
112.18            112.18
112.19            112.19
112.20            112.20
112.21            112.21
112.22            112.22
112.23            112.23
112.24            112.24
112.25            112.25
112.27            112.27
112.28            112.27
112.29            112.29
112.30            112.30
112.31            112.31
112.32            112.32
112.33            112.33
112.34            112.34
112.35            112.35
112.36            112.36
112.37            112.37
112.38            112.38
112.39            112.39
112.40            112.40
113.01            113.01
113.02            113.02
113.13            113.18
113.15            113.15
113.16            113.16
113.17            113.17
113.28            113.38
113.29            113.39
113.30            113.30
113.31            113.31
113.32            113.32
113.33            113.33
113.35            113.35
113.36            113.36
113.37            113.37
113.40            113.40
113.41            113.41
113.42            113.42
113.99            113.99
114.01            114.01
114.02            114.02
114.03            114.03
114.99            114.99
115.01            115.01
115.02            115.02
115.03            115.03
115.04            115.04
115.06            115.05
115.07            115.06
115.99            115.99
116.01            116.01
116.02            116.02
116.03            116.03
116.04            116.04
116.05            116.05
116.06            116.06
116.99            116.99
117.02            117.01,
                  117.02
117.03            117.03
117.04            117.04
117.05            117.05
117.06            117.06
117.07            117.07
117.08            117.08
117.09            117.09
117.10            117.10
117.11            117.11
117.20            117.20
117.99            117.99
130.01            130.01
130.02            130.02
130.03            130.03
130.04            130.04
130.05            130.05
130.06            130.06
130.07            130.07
130.08            130.08
130.09            130.09
130.10            130.10
130.11            130.11
130.12            130.12
130.13            130.13
130.25            130.25
130.26            130.26
130.27            130.27
130.98            130.98
131.01            131.01
131.02            131.02
131.03            131.03
131.04            131.04
131.05            131.02
131.06            131.06
131.061           131.06
131.07            131.07
131.08            131.08
131.09            131.09
131.10            131.10
131.11            131.11
131.12            131.12
131.13            131.13
131.14            131.14
131.15            131.15
131.16            131.16
131.17            131.17
131.18            131.18
131.19            131.19
131.20            131.20
131.21            131.21
131.22            131.22
131.23            131.05
131.24            131.24
131.25            131.25
131.26            131.26
132.01            132.01
132.02            132.02
132.03            132.03
132.04            132.04
132.05            132.05
132.06            132.06
132.07            132.07
132.08            132.08
132.09            132.09
132.10            132.10
132.11            132.11
132.12            132.12
132.13            132.13
132.14            132.14
132.15            132.15
132.17            132.17
132.18            132.18
132.19            132.19
132.20            132.20
133.01            133.01
133.02            133.02
133.03            133.03
133.05            133.05
133.06            133.04
133.07            133.07
133.08            133.08
133.09            133.09
133.10            133.10
133.101           133.11
133.12            133.12
134.01            134.01
134.02            134.02
134.03            134.03
134.04            134.04
134.05            134.05
134.06            134.06
134.07            134.07
134.08            134.08
134.09            134.09
135.01            135.02
135.02            135.03
135.03            135.04
135.04            135.04
135.041           135.05
135.05            135.06
135.06            135.06
135.061           135.06
135.062           135.06
135.07            135.07
135.08            135.08
135.09            135.09
135.10            135.10
135.11            135.11
135.12            135.12
135.13            135.13
135.14            135.14
135.15            135.15
135.151           135.15
135.16            135.16
135.17            135.17
135.18            135.18
135.19            135.19
136.01            136.01
136.02            136.02
136.03            136.03
136.04            136.04
136.05            136.05
136.06            136.06
136.07            136.07
136.08            136.08
136.09            136.09
136.10            136.10
136.11            136.11
136.12            136.12
136.13            136.13
136.14            136.14
136.15            136.15
136.16            136.16
136.17            136.17
138.01            138.01
138.02            138.02
138.03            138.03
138.04            138.04
138.05            138.05
138.07            138.07
138.08            138.08
138.09            138.09
138.11            138.11
138.12            138.12
138.13            138.13
138.14            138.14
139.01            139.01
139.03            91.40
139.06            139.03
139.07            139.04
139.08            139.05
139.09            139.06
139.10            139.07
150.01            150.01
150.15            150.15
150.16            150.16
150.27            150.27
150.35            150.35
150.45            150.45
150.46            150.46
150.60            150.60
150.61            150.61
150.62            150.62
150.63            150.63
150.64            150.64
150.65            150.65
150.66            150.66
150.67            150.67
150.68            150.68
150.69            150.69
150.70            150.70
150.71            150.71
150.99            150.99
151.01            151.01
151.02            151.02
151.03            151.03
152.01            152.01
152.02            152.02
152.03            152.03
152.04            152.04
152.05            152.05
152.06            152.06
152.07            152.07
152.08            152.08
152.09            152.09
152.10            152.10
152.11            152.11
152.12            152.12
152.13            152.13
152.14            152.14
152.20            152.20
152.21            152.21
152.22            152.22
152.23            152.23
152.25            150.25
152.26            150.26
153.001           153.001
153.002           153.002
153.003           153.003
153.004           153.004
153.005           153.005
153.006           153.006
153.007           153.007
153.008           153.008
153.009           153.009
153.010           153.010
153.011           153.011
153.012           153.012
153.020           153.020
153.021           153.021
153.030           153.030
153.031           153.031
153.032           153.032
153.033           153.033
153.034           153.034
153.035           153.035
153.036           153.036
153.037           153.037
153.045           153.045
153.046           153.046
153.047           153.047
153.048           153.048
153.049           153.049
153.050           153.050
153.051           153.051
153.052           153.052
153.060           153.060
153.061           153.061
153.062           153.062
153.063           153.063
153.064           153.064
153.065           153.065
153.066           153.066
153.067           153.067
153.075           153.075
153.076           153.076
153.077           153.077
153.078           153.078
153.079           153.079
153.080           153.079
153.081           153.081
153.090           153.090
153.091           153.091
153.092           153.092
153.093           153.093
153.094           153.094
153.095           153.095
153.096           153.096
153.097           153.097
153.105           153.105
153.106           153.106
153.107           153.107
153.108           153.108
153.109           153.109
153.110           153.110
153.111           153.111
153.112           153.112
153.120           153.120
153.121           153.121
153.122           153.122
153.123           153.123
153.124           153.124
153.125           153.125
153.126           153.126
153.135           153.135
153.136           153.136
153.137           153.137
153.138           153.138
153.139           153.139
153.140           153.140
153.141           153.141
153.150           153.150
153.151           153.151
153.152           153.152
153.153           153.153
153.154           153.154
153.155           153.155
153.156           153.156
153.157           153.157
153.158           153.158
153.159           153.159
153.160           153.160
153.161           153.161
153.162           153.162
153.163           153.163
153.164           153.164
153.170           153.170
153.171           153.171
153.172           153.172
153.173           153.173
153.174           153.174
153.175           153.175
153.176           153.176
153.177           153.177
153.185           153.185
153.186           153.186
153.187           153.187
153.188           153.188
153.189           153.189
153.200           153.200
153.201           153.201
153.202           153.201
153.203           153.203
153.204           153.204
153.210           153.210
153.211           153.211
153.212           153.212
153.213           153.213
153.214           153.214
153.215           153.215
153.216           153.216
153.225           153.225
153.226           153.226
153.227           153.227
153.228           153.228
153.229           153.229
153.240           153.240
153.241           153.241
153.242           153.242
153.997           153.997
153.998           153.998
153.999           153.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
80-R-60    7-14-1980   T.S.O. I
81-R-30    5-11-1981   T.S.O. VII
81-R-31    5-11-1981   T.S.O. VII
81-R-46    6-22-1981   T.S.O. VII
81-R-47    6-22-1981   T.S.O. VII
81-R-54(A) 8-10-1981   T.S.O. III
81-R-58(A) 9-28-1981   T.S.O. VII
81-R-62(A) 10-21-1981  T.S.O. VII
81-R-64    12-14-1981  T.S.O. VII
81-R-61(A) 12-22-1981  T.S.O. VII
81-R-62    12-22-1981  T.S.O. VII
81-R-67    12-22-1981  T.S.O. VII
82-R-53    11-22-1982  T.S.O. I
83-R-49    10-25-1983  T.S.O. VII
83-R-50    10-25-1983  T.S.O. VII
83-R-54    11-18-1983  T.S.O. VII
83-R-55    12-12-1983  T.S.O. VII
83-R-57    1-9-1984    T.S.O. VII
84-R-8     2-27-1984   T.S.O. VII
84-R-7     3-12-1984   T.S.O. VII
84-R-16    5-29-1984   T.S.O. VII
84-R-28    8-13-1984   T.S.O. VII
84-R-29    8-13-1984   T.S.O. VII
84-R-36    11-26-1984  T.S.O. VIII
84-R-37(A) 12-10-1984  T.S.O. VII
84-R-38    12-10-1984  T.S.O. VII
85-R-1     1-14-1985   T.S.O. VII
85-R-10    3-11-1985   T.S.O. III
85-R-18    5-13-1985   T.S.O. VII
85-R-22    6-10-1985   T.S.O. VII
85-R-45    12-8-1985   T.S.O. VII
86-R-8     4-23-1986   T.S.O. VII
94-R-24    9-26-1994   33.45
94-R-26    9-26-1994   33.01
95-R-52    8-28-1995   35.10
95-R-77    12-11-1995  38.145
2008-R-6   1-1-2008    T.S.O. VII
2008-R-7   1-1-2008    T.S.O. VII
2008-R-9   1-1-2008    T.S.O. VII
2008-R-10  1-1-2008    T.S.O. VII
2008-R-22  3-10-2008   T.S.O. VII
2008-R-29  6-9-2008    T.S.O. VII
2008-R-30  5-27-2008   T.S.O. VII
2008-R-33  6-23-2008   T.S.O. VII
2008-R-54  10-13-2008  T.S.O. VII
2008-R-66  12-22-2008  T.S.O. VII
2008-R-67  1-12-2009   T.S.O. VII
2008-R-68  12-22-2008  T.S.O. VII
2008-R-70  12-22-2008  T.S.O. VII
2008-R-71  12-22-2008  T.S.O. VII
2008-R-73  12-22-2008  T.S.O. VII
2008-R-74  12-22-2008  T.S.O. I
2009-R-15  6-8-2009    T.S.O. VII
2009-R-16  6-22-2009   T.S.O. VII
2009-R-22  7-27-2009   40.05
2009-R-29  10-13-2009  T.S.O. I
2009-R-36  12-28-2009  T.S.O. VII
2009-R-38  1-1-2010    T.S.O. VII
2009-R-41  12-28-2009  T.S.O. VII
2010-R-7   1-11-2010   T.S.O. VII
2010-R-9   1-11-2010   T.S.O. VII
2014-R-47  11-4-2014   Charter Art. 2 § 15, 42.13
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
                        117.01 -
14-1947     2-10-1947   117.11,
                        117.20,
                        117.99
                        115.01 -
46-1947     10-9-1947   115.06,
                        115.99
                        110.20 -
                        110.22,
3-1948      1-19-1948   110.24 -
                        110.27,
                        110.99
4-1948      1-19-1948   39.01 -
                        39.14
10-1949     5-2-1949    93.29
14-1949     9-19-1949   110.04
6-1953      3-16-1953   115.01,
                        115.02
8-1953      4-6-1953    117.02
11-1953     7-15-1953   113.30 -
                        113.42
9-1954      11-1-1954   150.45,
                        150.46
8-1955      7-18-1955   114.01 -
                        114.03
7-1956      9-12-1956   150.35
                        111.01 -
6-1958      5-5-1958    111.06,
                        111.99
7-1958      6-2-1958    33.45
2-1959      1-19-1959   33.35 -
                        33.38
                        110.21,
7-1959      3-2-1959    110.25,
                        110.99
7-1960      2-1-1960    115.01,
                        115.02
1-1962      2-5-1962    110.03
7A-1962     10-15-1962  110.01,
                        110.99
                        116.01 -
1-1963      1-7-1963    116.06,
                        116.99
8-1967      7-13-1967   150.25
9-1967      10-10-1967  152.01 -
                        152.14
10-1967     10-10-1967  152.05
68-6        3-4-1968    152.20
68-11       5-6-1968    34.01,
                        34.02
68-14       8-9-1968    150.26
                        153.001 -
                        153.012,
                        153.020,
                        153.021,
                        153.030 -
                        153.037,
                        153.045 -
                        153.052,
                        153.060 -
                        153.067,
                        153.075 -
                        153.081,
                        153.090 -
                        153.097,
                        153.105 -
                        153.112,
                        153.120 -
68-15       8-22-1968   153.126,
                        153.135 -
                        153.141,
                        153.150 -
                        153.164,
                        153.170 -
                        153.177,
                        153.185 -
                        153.189,
                        153.200 -
                        153.204,
                        153.210 -
                        153.216,
                        153.226 -
                        153.229,
                        153.240 -
                        153.242,
                        153.997 -
                        153.999
68-21       11-18-1968  152.22
69-33       9-15-1969   33.36
70-9        3-2-1970    152.21
71-14       4-14-1971   33.01,
                        33.02
71-17       5-17-1971   150.15
                        39.20 -
                        39.25,
73-11       2-19-1973   39.27 -
                        39.33,
                        39.99
75-9        2-24-1975   T.S.O. III
75-10       3-3-1975    35.01
75-3        4-7-1975    36.02
75-32       4-28-1975   T.S.O. III
75-33       4-28-1975   T.S.O. III
                        37.01 -
                        37.10,
75-53       6-9-1975    37.12 -
                        37.21,
                        37.23 -
                        37.40
75-49       6-24-1975   151.01 -
                        151.03
75-54       6-25-1975   T.S.O. V
75-39       7-1-1975    36.05
75-76       9-2-1975    T.S.O. II
75-87       11-10-1975  T.S.O. VI
75-88       11-10-1975  T.S.O. VI
76-O-3      1-26-1976   36.04
76-O-13     4-12-1976   70.98
76-O-14     4-12-1976   130.25 -
                        130.27
76-12       4-12-1976   T.S.O. III
76-O-17     4-26-1976   T.S.O. I
76-O-21     6-28-1976   72.95 -
                        72.99
76-O-23     7-12-1976   36.06
76-O-27     8-27-1976   T.S.O. III
76-O-29     9-13-1976   T.S.O. III
77-O-12     3-14-1977   T.S.O. I
                        150.60 -
                        150.67,
77-O-4      3-14-1977   150.69 -
                        150.71,
                        150.99
77-O-10     3-28-1977   T.S.O. V
77-O-11     3-28-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-13     4-11-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-16     4-11-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-17     4-11-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-18     4-25-1977   37.35
77-O-20     4-25-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-22     4-25-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-23     5-9-1977    T.S.O. III
77-O-24     6-27-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-27     6-27-1977   T.S.O. III
77-O-30     8-8-1977    T.S.O. III
77-O-31     8-8-1977    T.S.O. III
77-O-43     10-25-1977  T.S.O. III
77-O-28     4-10-1978   T.S.O. IV
78-O-4      5-8-1978    T.S.O. III
78-O-5      5-8-1978    T.S.O. III
78-O-15     6-26-1978   150.01
78-O-16     - -1978     Ch. 77, Sch. I
78-O-25     9-25-1978   70.98
78-O-26     10-24-1978  39.33
78-O-30     10-24-1978  70.98
78-O-32     10-24-1978  70.98
78-O-31     10-24-1978  130.98
78-O-18     - -1979     Ch. 77, Sch. I
79-O-4      4-9-1979    37.32
79-O-7      4-23-1979   T.S.O. III
79-O-10     4-23-1979   T.S.O. I
                        112.01 -
79-O-20     7-9-1979    112.40,
                        T.S.O. VI
79-O-24     8-13-1979   T.S.O. III
79-O-25     8-13-1979   T.S.O. III
79-O-26     8-13-1979   T.S.O. III
79-O-32     9-10-1979   T.S.O. I
79-O-33     9-24-1979   T.S.O. I
79-O-35     9-24-1979   T.S.O. III
79-O-41     11-12-1979  T.S.O. I
79-O-42     11-12-1979  130.98
79-O-40     12-17-1979  T.S.O. II
80-O-16     3-10-1980   T.S.O. III
80-O-4      3-24-1980   72.42
80-O-6      3-24-1980   71.08
80-O-7      3-24-1980   73.24
80-O-9      3-24-1980   74.01
80-O-12     3-24-1980   73.04
80-O-32     4-14-1980   33.15 -
                        33.23
80-O-27     5-12-1980   93.75
80-O-28     5-12-1980   37.41
80-O-29     5-12-1980   75.03
80-O-31     5-12-1980   T.S.O. I
80-O-40     6-9-1980    T.S.O. III
80-O-35     6-23-1980   37.41
80-O-38     7-14-1980   110.05
80-O-39     7-14-1980   110.06
80-O-43     8-25-1980   T.S.O. V
80-O-54     10-15-1980  T.S.O. IV
80-O-55     10-15-1980  T.S.O. II
81-O-6      4-13-1981   150.27
81-O-14     4-13-1981   T.S.O. III
81-O-18     7-31-1981   T.S.O. I
81-O-20(A)  9-1-1981    T.S.O. III
81-O-25     9-28-1981   T.S.O. I
81-O-24     10-13-1981  T.S.O. VII
81-O-28     10-13-1981  T.S.O. IX
81-O-35     12-14-1981  T.S.O. VII
82-O-1      2-22-1982   110.21
82-O-2      3-8-1982    34.11
82-O-3      3-8-1982    10.98
82-O-7      3-22-1982   93.07
                        93.65,
82-O-8      3-22-1982   93.67,
                        93.99
82-O-9      3-22-1982   110.21
82-O-13     5-10-1982   T.S.O. III
82-O-12     5-24-1982   T.S.O. III
82-O-22     5-26-1982   T.S.O. III
82-O-24     5-26-1982   T.S.O. III
82-O-21     9-13-1982   93.68
82-O-43     12-27-1982  33.04
82-O-46     12-27-1982  T.S.O. I
83-O-12     4-25-1983   T.S.O. III
83-O-23     10-25-1983  T.S.O. VII
83-O-25     11-14-1983  T.S.O. I
84-O-1      2-13-1984   Ch. 77, Sch. II
84-O-11     5-29-1984   T.S.O. VII
84-O-14     8-13-1984   132.17
84-O-26     11-21-1984  T.S.O. VII
84-O-28     12-19-1984  74.43
84-O-31     12-19-1984  136.16
84-O-32     12-19-1984  72.42
84-O-33     12-19-1984  73.24
84-O-34     12-19-1984  73.04
84-O-35     12-19-1984  73.99,
                        136.16
85-O-1      1-14-1985   110.21
85-O-2      1-14-1985   40.01
2-25-85     - -         153.211
85-O-8      3-11-1985   39.49
85-O-19     8-26-1985   110.07,
                        110.99
85-O-34     12-30-1985  T.S.O. VII
86-O-8      1-8-1986    T.S.O. VII
86-O-10(A)  1-22-1986   T.S.O. VII
86-O-14     2-12-1986   T.S.O. VII
86-O-19     2-12-1986   39.34
86-O-23     4-23-1986   T.S.O. VII
86-O-27     4-23-1986   T.S.O. III
86-O-40     12-17-1986  T.S.O. VII
86-O-47     12-17-1986  T.S.O. I
86-O-48     12-17-1986  T.S.O. VII
87-O-5      2-25-1987   T.S.O. VII
87-O-14     4-8-1987    34.11
87-O-45     11-25-1987  T.S.O. VII
88-O-17     6-8-1988    132.17
88-O-18     - -1988     T.S.O. VII
88-O-25     11-23-1988  93.66
89-O-7      4-26-1989   T.S.O. III
89-O-13     9-27-1989   T.S.O. VII
90-O-5      2-14-1990   39.45
90-O-2      3-14-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-10     3-14-1990   37.42
90-O-23     5-9-1990    T.S.O. VII
90-O-24     5-9-1990    39.48
90-O-21     5-23-1990   40.02
90-O-27     5-23-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-32     6-13-1990   T.S.O. III
90-O-34     6-13-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-35     6-27-1990   T.S.O. III
90-O-36     7-2-1990    T.S.O. VII
90-O-37     7-2-1990    T.S.O. III
90-O-38     7-11-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-39     8-8-1990    T.S.O. VII
90-O-43     8-27-1990   T.S.O. IX
90-O-44     9-12-1990   T.S.O. V
90-O-46     9-12-1990   T.S.O. III
90-O-49     9-25-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-41     9-26-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-47     9-26-1990   T.S.O. VII
90-O-50     11-14-1990  150.15
90-O-56     11-14-1990  138.14
90-O-57     11-14-1990  T.S.O. III
90-O-59     11-28-1990  T.S.O. IX
90-O-62     12-12-1990  T.S.O. III
91-O-4      1-9-1991    39.46
91-O-6      1-29-1991   T.S.O. VII
91-O-9.1    3-13-1991   73.05 -
                        73.07
91-O-14     5-15-1991   T.S.O. VII
91-O-20     7-10-1991   39.60
91-O-21.1   7-30-1991   T.S.O. V
91-O-31     12-11-1991  T.S.O. VII
91-O-32     12-11-1991  39.47
91-O-33     12-11-1991  70.98
92-O-40     12-9-1992   T.S.O. III
92-O-41     12-23-1992  33.01
93-O-1      1-27-1993   39.60
93-O-2      3-10-1993   150.16
93-O-14     - -         T.S.O. III
93-O-21     9-22-1993   70.98
                        39.22,
                        39.23,
93-O-23     12-15-1993  39.25,
                        39.26,
                        39.33
94-O-5      4-11-1994   112.50 -
                        112.53
94-O-28     6-27-1994   37.44
94-O-29     9-12-1994   37.43
95-O-04     3-27-1995   132.18,
                        132.19
95-O-5      3-27-1995   132.20
95-O-08     6-26-1995   74.31
95-O-10     10-23-1995  132.13,
                        132.14
                        97.01 -
95-O-13     11-27-1995  97.03,
                        97.99
96-O-2      2-26-1996   T.S.O. VII
                        150.15,
96-O-3      2-26-1996   150.16,
                        150.25
96-O-6      4-8-1996    38.093
96-O-8      6-10-1996   153.048
96-O-12     6-10-1996   72.95,
                        72.96
96-O-16     6-24-1996   150.16
96-O-19     8-12-1996   70.98
96-O-20     8-12-1996   132.17
96-O-17     8-31-1996   130.98
96-O-22     9-9-1996    33.16
96-O-23     9-9-1996    33.17
96-O-24     9-9-1996    34.01
96-O-25     9-9-1996    34.07
96-O-26     9-9-1996    34.10
96-O-27     9-9-1996    34.11
96-O-28     9-9-1996    37.37
96-O-31     10-15-1996  37.13
96-O-29     11-12-1996  37.23
96-O-30     11-12-1996  37.12
97-O-4      1-29-1997   150.26
97-O-5      1-29-1997   36.02
97-O-1      2-10-1997   37.21
97-O-2      2-10-1997   33.03
97-O-12     4-17-1997   42.10
97-O-17     4-17-1997   40.03
97-O-18     4-17-1997   93.40
97-O-22     5-12-1997   76.12,
                        76.13
97-O-27     5-27-1997   93.57
97-O-26     7-14-1997   132.17
                        Charter §§
                        2.03,
97-O-37     7-30-1997   2.04;
                        42.02,
                        42.03
                        Charter §
97-O-40     7-30-1997   4.09;
                        42.08
                        Charter §
97-O-41     7-30-1997   6.01;
                        42.09
                        Charter §
97-O-49     7-30-1997   2.11;
                        42.05
97-O-48     7-30-1997   42.06
97-O-55     8-25-1997   70.98
97-O-56     8-25-1997   37.42
97-O-47     11-10-1997  154.01 -
                        154.15
97-O-76     11-24-1997  37.10
                        Charter §
98-O-6      2-9-1998    3.11;
                        42.07
                        110.20 -
98-O-14     2-9-1998    110.22,
                        110.26,
                        110.27
98-O-7      2-23-1998   42.04
                        Charter §
98-O-8      2-23-1998   2.02;
                        42.01
98-O-23     4-12-1998   93.99
98-O-28     4-27-1998   37.12
98-O-17     5-11-1998   37.45
                        118.01 -
98-O-18     5-11-1998   118.18,
                        118.99
98-O-62     9-1-1998    42.12
                        Charter §
98-O-63     9-1-1998    2.11;
                        42.05
                        Charter §
98-O-64     9-1-1998    9.04;
                        42.10
                        Charter §
98-O-65     9-1-1998    11.04;
                        42.11
                        Charter §
98-O-66     9-1-1998    2.08;
                        42.04
98-O-81     11-9-1998   42.04
99-O-6      2-8-1999    155.01 -
                        155.08
99-O-33     5-20-1999   42.04
99-O-31     7-12-1999   37.39,
                        37.40
99-O-45     7-12-1999   155.99
                        Charter §
99-O-84     12-27-1999  2.03;
                        42.02
                        Charter §
99-O-85     12-27-1999  2.04;
                        42.03
2000-O-3    2-14-2000   35.11
2000-O-25   4-10-2000   153.225
                        93.66 -
99-O-91     5-22-2000   93.75,
                        93.99
                        90.01 -
                        90.06,
                        90.20 -
00-O-14     6-19-2000   90.30,
                        90.45 -
                        90.53,
                        90.99
2000-O-45   6-19-2000   72.95,
                        72.96
                        93.90,
2000-O-51   10-10-2000  93.91,
                        93.99
2000-O-38   10-30-2000  110.21,
                        110.27
2001-O-4    2-12-2001   39.36
                        39.21,
2001-O-3    2-26-2001   39.22,
                        39.25,
                        39.29
2001-O-24   4-23-2001   72.96
2001-O-5    5-14-2001   39.35
2001-O-17   7-9-2001    153.230 -
                        153.235
2001-O-36   7-23-2001   42.11
                        41.01 -
2001-O-50   11-13-2001  41.10,
                        41.99
2001-O-58   12-17-2001  150.25
2002        - -         153.225
2002-O-12   3-11-2002   96.01 -
                        96.10
2002-O-17   3-11-       153.225
2002-O-18   3-11-2002   132.23
2002-O-23   4-22-2002   71.08
2003        - -         39.26
2003-O-01   2-10-2003   37.40
2003-O-11   2-10-2003   37.01
2003-O-14   2-10-2003   37.13
2003-O-33   6-23-2003   37.46
2003-O-43   9-22-2003   132.24
2003-O-5    12-22-2003  39.35
2001-O-53   12-22-2003  39.20 -
                        39.31
2003-O-53   12-22-      39.26
2003-O-53   12-22-2003  39.99
2004-O-15   7-20-2004   70.99
2005-O-14   4-11-2005   38.022
2006-O-10   2-13-2006   150.80
2007-O-12   1-22-2007   118.05
2007-O-14   1-22-2007   70.98
2007-O-15   1-22-2007   10.99
2007-O-17   2-16-2007   130.98
2007-O-20   4-9-2007    10.99
2008-O-4    2-11-2008   112.41
2008-O-5    2-25-2008   Adopting Ordinance
2008-O-9    6-9-2008    10.02
2008-O-11   4-28-2008   40.04
2008-O-12   4-28-2008   37.45
2008-O-13   4-28-2008   38.076
2008-O-15   6-9-2008    38.065
2008-O-23   6-9-2008    33.01
                        Charter §
2008-O-24   7-7-2008    6.01;
                        42.09
2008-O-24.1 6-9-2008    38.019
2008-O-27   9-22-2008   38.143
2008-O-28   10-27-2008  38.090
2008-O-30   10-27-2008  130.28
2008-O-31   10-27-2008  38.074
2009-O-8    4-27-2009   38.141
2009-O-9    6-22-2009   35.12
2009-O-13   10-26-2009  90.99
2009-O-19   12-28-2009  38.090
2010-O-1    1-1-2010    38.141
2010-O-2    4-26-2010   37.01,
                        37.13
2010-O-3    5-25-2010   139.08
2010-O-4    6-14-2010   36.08
2010-O-8    2-3-2012    38.077
2011-O-1    3-28-2011   150.25
2011-O-4    2-27-2012   38.120
2011-O-5    10-11-2011  Adopting Ordinance
2011-O-8    11-14-2011  38.149
2012-O-1    2-3-2012    38.077
2012-O-2    2-27-2012   36.09
2012-O-3    2-13-2012   38.145
2012-O-6    6-11-2012   95.09
2012-O-7    6-11-2012   93.50
2012-O-10   9-10-2012   98.01 ,
                        98.99
2012-O-11   10-22-2012  33.02
2012-O-12   10-22-2012  33.03
2012-O-13   10-22-2012  37.01
2012-O-14   10-22-2012  37.21
2012-O-15   12-17-2012  38.109
2013-O-1    1-28-2013   T.S.O. X
2013-O-2    7-8-2013    37.42
2013-O-3    9-9-2013    33.01
2013-O-4    11-16-2013  37.12
2014-O-1    4-14-2014   93.40
2014-O-2    4-14-2014   38.016 ,
                        38.041
2014-O-3    10-14-2014  38.017
2014-O-4    10-14-2014  38.144
2015-O-1    1-8-2015    37.01
2015-O-2    1-8-2015    37.15
2015-O-3    2-23-2015   T.S.O. III
2015-O-4    5-11-2015   35.11
2015-O-5    6-1-2015    70.98
2015-O-6    6-1-2015    74.46
2015-O-7    6-1-2015    72.63
2015-O-8    7-30-2015   Charter §
                        8.06
2015-O-9    7-30-2015   Charter §
                        8.07
2015-O-10   7-30-2015   Charter §
                        11.09
2015-O-11   - -         38.019
2015-O-12   - -         37.01
2015-O-13   11-9-2015   Adopting Ordinance
                        39.71 -
2015-O-14   12-28-2015  39.95,
                        39.98
2015-O-15   12-28-2015  139.09
2016-O-01   2-24-2016   139.09
2016-O-02   3-23-2016   93.40
2016-O-03   2-22-2016   39.73
2016-O-04   3-28-2016   37.01
2016-O-05   4-11-2016   93.41
2016-O-6    6-13-2016   153.216
                        93.67,
2018-O-1    4-9-2018    93.68,
                        93.74
2018-O-2    5-29-2018   110.22
2018-O-3    5-29-2018   110.23
2018-O-6    7-9-2018    Charter §
                        5.03
2018-O-7    7-9-2018    Charter §
                        2.02
2019-O-1    1-28-2019   93.41
2019-O-2    12-9-2019   Repeals Ch. 137
2020-O-1    7-13-2020   36.10
2021-O-2    5-10-2021   52.01,
                        52.02
2021-O-4    10-25-2021  138.20
2022-O-1    4-25-2022   38.040,
                        38.041
2022-O-3    3-13-2023   38.085
2022-O-4    3-13-2023   38.092
2023-O-1    5-8-2023    93.67
2023-O-3    10-23-2023  37.13
                        39.72,
                        39.73,
2023-O-4    12-27-2023  39.75,
                        39.88,
                        39.96
2024-O-2    3-11-2024   38.141
                       
 
 
 
