CITY OF MADEIRA, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-01 passed 2-10-2025
State legislation current through 12-31-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   MADEIRA, OHIO
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
   
PREAMBLE
   
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE, NAME, AND BOUNDARIES
   
ARTICLE II. FORM OF GOVERNMENT AND MUNICIPAL POWERS
   
ARTICLE III. COUNCIL
   
1.   Members and terms
   
2.   Qualifications
   
3.   Meetings
   
4.   Quorum and voting
   
5.   Removals and vacancies
   
6.   Salaries
   
7.   Mayor
   
8.   Vice Mayor
   
ARTICLE IV.  MANAGER
   
1.   Appointment
   
2.   Powers and duties
   
3.   Interference by Council
   
4.   Expenditures
   
5.   Contracts and purchases
   
6.   Salary
   
ARTICLE V. OTHER OFFICIALS
   
1.   Clerk
   
2.   Treasurer
   
3.   Law Director
   
4.   Combination of offices (Clerk-Treasurer)
   
5.   Salaries
   
ARTICLE VI. APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS
   
1.   Appointment and removal of officials
   
2.   Creation and abolishment of offices
   
ARTICLE VII. PLANNING COMMISSION
   
1.   Appointment
   
2.   Powers and duties
   
3.   Action of Council necessary
   
4.   Deleted by Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017
   
ARTICLE VIII. CIVIL SERVICE
   
1.   Civil Service Commission
   
2.   Duties of the Commission
   
3.   Classification of service
   
4.   Civil Service Commission’s procedures
   
5.   Rules and regulations of the Civil Service Commission
   
ARTICLE IX. POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION
   
1.   Powers
   
2.   Police protection
   
3.   Fire protection
   
ARTICLE X. FINANCES
   
1.   Taxes
   
2.   Extra levy
   
3.   Budget
   
4.   Appropriation ordinance
   
5.   Audits
   
6.   Capital improvement reserve fund
   ARTICLE XI. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
   
1.   Time and taking effect
   
ARTICLE XII. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, AND RECALL
   
1.   Powers reserved
   
2.   Initiative
   
3.   Referendum
   
4.   Recall
   
ARTICLE XIII. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
   
1.   Elections
   
2.   Nominations
   
3.   Ballots
   
4.   Conduct of elections and canvass of votes
   
5.   Who elected
   
ARTICLE XIV. GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
1.   Publicity of records
   
2.   Personal interest
   
3.   Official bonds
   
4.   Separability
   
5.   Amending the charter
   
ARTICLE XV. EFFECTIVE DATE AND EFFECTS OF ADOPTION
   
1.   Effective date
   
2.   Effect on present offices
   
3.   Effect on present ordinances
   
4.   Effect on present contracts
   
ARTICLE XVI. MADEIRA HISTORIC DISTRICT/PRESERVATION
   
1.   Madeira Historic District/Preservation
   
ARTICLE XVII. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
   
1.   Appointment and qualifications
   
2.   Meetings
   
3.   Powers and duties
   
4.   Variances
 
FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS CHARTER:
      The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the neuter, the
feminine gender shall include the masculine and the neuter, and the neuter
gender shall include the masculine and feminine, unless the context otherwise
requires. The singular form of a word shall include the plural and the plural
form of a word shall include the singular, unless the context otherwise
requires.
PREAMBLE
This charter is the fundamental law to provide the maximum of home rule to the
people of Madeira. It supersedes many of the statutory laws of Ohio relative to
municipal government. This right to adopt a charter for the self-government of
the municipality is granted by the Constitution of Ohio.
The charter has been drafted to provide for a Council-Manager form of
government. It is intended to provide a government responsive to the will of
the people of Madeira, and capable of translating their wishes into effective
action economically and without undue delay. An elected Council is charged with
the full responsibility for passage of laws and for general supervision of the
affairs of the government. Full responsibility for the actual administration of
the laws and the executive conduct of the affairs of the municipality is,
however, placed in the hands of a competent Manager, who must answer to Council
but who is otherwise free from interference and pressure. The charter
simplifies the form of government which would otherwise be imposed when Madeira
becomes a city in 1960 or 1961, eliminating some of the more complicated
requirements of a non-charter city government.
It is no more difficult to amend the charter than to adopt it originally, and
its provisions may periodically be reviewed and revised to meet changing
conditions and needs. This flexibility is, indeed, one of the advantages of the
charter.
There will be a special election in the village on Tuesday, August 4, 1959, for
the purpose of voting on the adoption of the charter. Please do not fail to
vote at that time.
THE CHARTER COMMISSION OF MADEIRA, OHIO
William G. Blankemeyer  Robert L. Kinner
J. Paul Bowling         Harry E. Messerly
Anthony J. DeCenso      Carl A. Schneider
Mrs. Arnold Johnson     Clayton Strider
Robert L. Kessler       Norman S. Tiffany
Ray P. Keys             John Q. Vance
James H. King           Mrs. Phila L. Weisbrod
Richard J. Wenstrup      
 
The charter was adopted by the voters at the special election held on August 4,
1959. Since that time the charter has been amended several times. The list of
those amendments and the date of approval by the electorate follows and is
certified as correct.
   Art. III, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. III, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. III, § 7 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. III, § 7 adopted by the voters 11-4-1986
   Art. III, § 8 adopted by the voters 11-4-1986
   Art. IV, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-4-1975
   Art. IV, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. IV, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. IV, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-8-2011
   Art. V, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. V, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. V, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. V, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. V, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. V, § 4 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. VII, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-4-1986
   Art. VII, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-8-2011
   Art. VII, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. VII, § 4 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. VIII, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. VIII, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. VIII, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. VIII, § 4 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. VIII, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. X, § 2 adopted by the voters 5-16-1965
   Art. X, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-4-1975
   Art. X, § 5 adopted by the voters 6-2-1992
   Art. XI, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. XII, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. XII, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-8-2011
   Art. XII, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. XII, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-8-2011
   Art. XII, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. XII, § 3 adopted by the voters 11-8-2011
   Art. XIII, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. XIII, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-2-1982
   Art. XIII, § 2 adopted by the voters 11-3-1998
   Art. XIII, § 3 adopted by the voters 5-16-1965
   Art. XIV, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-2-1981
   Art. XIV, § 5 adopted by the voters 11-8-2011
   Art. XVI, § 1 adopted by the voters 11-4-2014
   Art. XVII, §§ 1 through 4 adopted by the voters 5-2-2017
Certified as correct 8-13-1998 by:
  /s/ Diane W. Novakov
   Clerk of Council
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE, NAME, AND BOUNDARIES
We, the people of the municipal corporation of Madeira, Ohio, in order to
determine for ourselves the form of its government and the manner in which its
powers of home rule are to be exercised, do hereby adopt the following as the
charter of our municipality.
The present municipality known as the Village of Madeira, Ohio, shall continue
to be a body politic and corporate, under the name of the Village of Madeira,
or the City of Madeira, as its population requires. The boundaries of the
municipality shall upon adoption of this charter be the same as those
immediately theretofore existing, but without limitation upon the future
exercise by the municipality all of such power and authority as may be provided
it by the general laws of Ohio in connection with the change of municipal
boundaries by annexation or detachment.
ARTICLE II. FORM OF GOVERNMENT AND MUNICIPAL POWERS
Under the Council-Manager form of government provided by this charter all
legislative powers of the municipality, except as reserved in this charter to
the electors, shall be vested in an elected Council and the administrative
powers of the municipal government shall be vested in a Manager appointed by
such Council.
Under this charter the municipality shall have home rule and all the powers of
local self-government and all other powers possible for it to have under the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, and all powers that now are or may hereafter
be granted it by the laws of Ohio.
Except in those cases in which the manner of the exercise of such powers may
not be modified by or pursuant to charter or ordinance, they shall be exercised
in the manner prescribed by this charter, or, if such manner is not herein
prescribed, in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance, or, if not
prescribed by ordinance, in such manner as may be prescribed by general law.
ARTICLE III. COUNCIL
§ 1 MEMBERS AND TERMS.
The municipal Council shall consist of 7 members, elected at large for a term
of 4 years, commencing on the first day of December next after such election,
except that for the first election after passage of this charter amendment, 3
members shall be elected for 4 year terms and 4 members shall be elected for 2
year terms. Thereafter, an election shall be held every 2 years. The members of
Council shall serve until their successors are chosen and qualified. A member
who has served more than half of a term shall be credited with having served
that term. A member shall not be eligible to serve more than 3 consecutive
terms either as a Council member and/or Mayor.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981)
§ 2 QUALIFICATIONS.
Members of Council shall be electors of the municipality and shall, as of the
date of their election, have resided therein since at least the next preceding
general election.
§ 3 MEETINGS.
Council shall hold not less than one meeting in each calendar month at such
time and place as may be designated for its regular meetings by rule or
ordinance. In addition, on the first day of December after its election,
Council shall hold an installation and organizational meeting. Unless notice is
provided to the contrary, that meeting shall be heard at 7:30 p.m. at the
municipal building. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any three
members of Council on notice in writing delivered to each other member in
person or left at the Council member’s home at least 24 hours in advance
thereof.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
§ 4 QUORUM AND VOTING.
A majority of the members of Council shall constitute a quorum to do business,
but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members as provided by ordinance. Every ordinance and every resolution
having the force or effect of law shall be read on 3 separate days before its
passage, unless such requirement is dispensed with by affirmative vote of at
least 5 members of Council. The affirmative vote of at least 4 members, except
as otherwise prescribed in this charter, shall be necessary to the passage of
any such measure having the force or effect of law, and all votes thereon shall
be taken by roll call and the yeas and nays entered upon the journal. Council
may adopt rules, not inconsistent with this charter, governing its own
proceedings and other matters pertaining to the exercise of its powers and
performance of its duties.
§ 5 REMOVALS AND VACANCIES.
During the term of their office, Members of Council shall not be employed by
the government of this municipality, but may hold any other compatible public
office or employment. Any member who ceases to be a resident of this
municipality shall thereby forfeit his office as such. Council may, after
notice and hearing, and with the concurrence of five of its members, declare
vacant the seat of any member who at any time fails, for 90 days and without
reasonable cause, to attend any regular meeting of Council or who is guilty of
misconduct in his office as Councilman. When the seat of any member becomes
vacant, it shall be filled for the unexpired term by Council, at least four of
its members concurring in the election of the successor. If Council fails
within 60 days to fill such vacancy, the Mayor shall select the successor.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 6 SALARIES.
Salaries of Councilmen shall be established by ordinance. Additional
compensation may be established for the Mayor by ordinance. Salaries of the
Councilmen and Mayor shall not be changed during their term of office, nor by
any ordinance passed subsequent to the final date on which they could be
nominated for such office.
§ 7 MAYOR.
Council shall at its installation meeting choose one of its members as Mayor to
serve for a two year term. The member chosen as Mayor must receive the
affirmative vote of four or more members of Council. The Mayor shall, in
addition to the powers, rights and duties as a member of Council preside at all
its meetings and be recognized as the official head of the municipality for all
ceremonial purposes, by the Governor for military purposes, and by the courts
for purposes of serving civil process. The Mayor shall have jurisdiction in
civil and criminal cases as provided by law.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 11-4-
1986)
§ 8 VICE MAYOR.
Council shall at its installation meeting choose one of its members as Vice
Mayor to serve as such for a two year term. The member chosen as Vice Mayor
must receive the affirmative vote of four or more members of Council. The Vice
Mayor shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Mayor in
case of temporary absence or disability of the Mayor and shall succeed to this
office in case of vacancy.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-4-1986)
ARTICLE IV. MANAGER
§ 1 APPOINTMENT.
Council shall appoint a Manager who shall be the chief executive and
administrative officer of the municipality. He shall be appointed for an
indefinite term, subject to removal as provided by this charter. He shall be
chosen solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications,
with special reference to his actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted
practice in respect to the duties of his office as hereinafter set forth.
No Councilman shall receive such appointment during the term for which he shall
have been elected, nor within one year after the expiration of such term.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Manager shall be responsible to Council for the proper administration of
all the affairs of the municipality and the enforcement of all its laws and
ordinances, except as herein otherwise provided, and to that end he shall have
exclusive authority to make all appointments, suspensions, and removals of
employees in the departments and offices under his control, including, without
limitation, the chief of police, the heads of all such departments and offices,
and all personnel subordinate to them, but subject to such restrictions as may
be imposed upon such authority of the Manager under and pursuant to the
provisions of Article VIII of this charter relative to the civil service at
such time as the municipality becomes a city.
He shall attend all meetings of Council, with the right to participate in its
discussions but without the right to vote; and he shall attend meetings of any
committee of Council when so requested by such committee.
He shall prepare and submit to Council the annual budget and the annual
appropriation ordinance and be responsible for the administration of them after
their adoption.
He shall prepare and submit to Council as of the end of each fiscal year a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
municipality for such year.
He shall prepare and submit to Council each month a report showing the
conditions of all appropriated funds.
He shall serve as chief executive officer over all departments except that he
shall not have jurisdiction or authority over, or serve as, the Clerk,
Treasurer, Clerk-Treasurer, or Solicitor.
He shall issue all licenses and permits pursuant to ordinances and perform all
other duties prescribed for him in this charter or imposed on him by any
measure of Council.
The Manager may by letter filed with the Clerk designate a qualified person,
subject to the approval of Council to perform his duties during his temporary
absence or disability. In the event such designation is not made, Council may
appoint a qualified person to perform the duties of the Manager until his
return or the end of his disability.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-4-1975)
§ 3 INTERFERENCE BY COUNCIL.
Neither Council, its committees or members, nor the Mayor, shall direct or
request the appointment of any person to, or his suspension or removal from,
office or employment by the Manager, or in any manner take part in the
appointment, discipline, or removal of subordinates and employees in the
administrative service of the municipality. Council, its committees and
members, shall deal with that portion of the service of the municipality for
which the Manager is responsible solely through the Manager, and neither
Council, nor its committees or members, shall give any orders to any
subordinate of the Manager. Violation of this section shall be deemed
misconduct in office. Council may, however, inquire into the conduct of any
office or department, the performance of any contract, or any of the affairs of
the municipality, and may in the exercise of such power compel or authorize one
of its committees to compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of books, papers, and other evidence under penalty of law.
§ 4 EXPENDITURES.
All expenditures of municipal funds shall be upon warrants signed by the
Treasurer (or Clerk-Treasurer) and countersigned by the Manager. Such
expenditures shall be made only upon authorization of the Manager. Such
authorization shall in each case include certification that the expenditure is
covered by an appropriation in the annual appropriation ordinance or some
amendment thereto and that unexpended funds within such appropriation,
sufficient to cover such expenditure, are on hand and available for the payment
thereof.
§ 5 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
The Manager shall execute and deliver all contracts and make all purchases for
the municipality, except franchise for public utility services. All contracts
and purchases involving an expenditure for more than $10,000 shall be
authorized by ordinance of Council. No contract involving the expenditure of an
amount in excess of that set forth in the applicable provision of the Ohio
Revised Code as amended, for the construction, maintenance or repair of any
public work or improvement by a private contractor, and no purchase in excess
of such amount, shall be made, except after advertising at least once and for
at least one week in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and
the receipt of written bid or bids, unless in case of emergency which will not
admit of delay. In lieu of the advertising set forth herein, the city may
proceed to obtain bids pursuant to any other notice or advertising procedures
that may be authorized for municipalities by the Ohio Revised Code. Where such
a contract or a purchase is made by the Manager in such an emergency, he/she
shall fully report thereon to Council at its next meeting thereafter. No
contract not constituting a franchise for public utility service shall be made
for a term of longer than five years. All contracts shall be approved as to
form by the Solicitor before they are executed by the Manager.
Purchases may be made simultaneously with purchases by other governmental
bodies and in cooperation with their officers.
After receipt of bids where required, Council may authorize the Manager to make
the subject purchase or contract from or with the bidder who in its judgment
offers the best proposal in terms of quality, service and adaptability to the
requirements of the municipality, as well as price, or may direct the rejection
of all bids.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-
1998; Amendment passed by the voters 11-8-2011)
§ 6 SALARY.
Council shall establish the salary of the Manager by ordinance.
ARTICLE V. OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 1 CLERK.
Council shall appoint a Clerk who shall attend all meetings of Council, keep
its records, and perform all duties prescribed for him in this charter, and
such additional duties as may be imposed upon him by any measure of Council or
by general law. His appointment shall be for two years, concurrent with the
term of Council appointing him.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-
2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 2 TREASURER.
Council shall appoint a Treasurer who shall serve as the fiscal and accounting
officer of the municipal government. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the
receipt and deposit of all funds of the municipality, for the collection of all
monies due the municipality, and shall sign all checks and vouchers for the
disbursement of the funds of the municipality. The Treasurer shall demand and
receive from the County Treasurer the taxes levied and assessments made and
certified by the legislative authority, monies from employees and officials of
the municipality who are authorized to collect such monies and monies accruing
to the municipality from any judgements, fines, penalties, forfeitures,
licenses, costs taxed in Mayor’s court, and debts due the municipal
corporation. He/she shall be the custodian of the official bonds of others, and
of instruments for the payment of money of the municipality, and shall perform
all other financial duties imposed upon him/her by any measure of Council or by
general law. His/her appointment shall be for two years, concurrent with the
term of Council appointing him/her.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-
1998; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 3 LAW DIRECTOR.
Council shall appoint a Law Director who shall be an attorney-at-law admitted
to practice in Ohio.
The Law Director shall be the legal advisor of, and attorney and counsel for,
the municipal government, and all officers and departments thereof in any
matters relative to their official duties, and shall, when requested, give
legal opinions in writing. He/she shall represent the municipality in all
litigation to which it may be a party, and shall upon request of the Mayor
prosecute for violations of law in actions before the Mayor. He/she shall, on
request, prepare all contracts, bonds, and other written instruments in which
the municipality is concerned, and shall endorse on each his/her approval of
the form and correctness thereof. He/she shall perform all other duties of a
legal nature imposed on him/her by any measure of Council. His/her appointment
shall be for two years concurrent with the terms of Council appointing him/her,
subject to removal in accordance with Article VI, § 1 of this charter. Nothing
herein, however, shall prohibit Council from retaining additional legal counsel
as it may deem appropriate from time to time. In addition, nothing shall limit
Council contracting for legal services performed by professionals in a law
office of the Law Director. Any contract with the Law Director for legal
services shall terminate upon removal from office or upon conclusion of the
term of appointment, whichever occurs first.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-
1998; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 4 COMBINATION OF OFFICES (CLERK-TREASURER).
Council may, effective at any time on or after December 1, 1959, and regardless
of the term for which the incumbents thereof may have been appointed, by
ordinance combine the offices of Clerk and Treasurer, allowing one individual
to perform the functions of both offices. The person appointed to perform such
combined functions shall be known as Clerk-Treasurer. His appointment shall be
for 2 years, concurrent with the term of Council appointing him.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-
2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 5 SALARIES.
Council shall establish the salaries of the Clerk, Treasurer, or Clerk-
Treasurer, and the compensation of the Law Director, by ordinance.
ARTICLE VI. APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS
§ 1 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICIALS.
No appointment shall be made by Council except by majority vote. Council may
remove any official which it has appointed, but such removal shall be effected,
unless the appointee in writing waives these provisions, only by affirmative
vote of 5 or more members of Council at a regular meeting of Council. Council
shall notify the appointee that it proposes to remove him from office, stating
its reasons for such proposed removal and the time and place of the meeting at
which it proposes to take such action; such notice shall be given in writing
delivered to him in person or left at his home at least 7 days in advance of
such meeting. The appointee shall be entitled to be heard at such meeting, to
present evidence in his own behalf, and to examine witnesses appearing in
support of any charge against him. The action of Council in such matters shall,
however, be final, and subject to no appeal, it being the intention of this
charter to vest all authority and fix all responsibility for any such removal
in the Council. Council may in any event suspend such appointee from office
pending such meeting and final decision with regard to his removal.
§ 2 CREATION AND ABOLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
Council shall not abolish any office or diminish or transfer any powers or
duties prescribed in this charter. Council may, however, by ordinance
establish, abolish, divide, or combine, and may determine the functions,
powers, and duties of, any office or department not prescribed in this charter.
Appointees to the offices of Clerk and Treasurer shall hold their such
appointments subject to loss of office through combination of their offices and
such combination during their terms shall not be deemed a removal within the
provisions of this article.
ARTICLE VII. PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 1 APPOINTMENT.
The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members, all of whom shall be
appointed by Council. All persons appointed as members of the Commission shall
be qualified electors of the municipality. As of December 31, 2017, all
existing terms shall be vacated. Council shall make initial appointments
effective January 1, 2018, as follows: three persons shall be appointed as
members for terms of four years, ending December 31, 2021, and four persons
shall be appointed as members for terms of two years, ending December 31, 2019.
Thereafter, all persons shall be appointed for four year terms beginning
January 1 of the appointed year and shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed. Any vacancies shall be filled in the manner in which
the original appointment was made to serve for the respective unexpired term.
One member of Council shall be appointed to the Commission and shall be the
only paid city official on the Commission. The member of the Commission
appointed thereto as a member of Council, and any successor, shall serve on the
Commission only during their respective term of the appointing Council.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-4-1986; Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-
1998; Amendment passed by the voters 11-8-2011; Amendment passed by the voters
5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have all the powers granted to, and perform all the duties
imposed upon, planning commissions and platting commissioners by the laws of
Ohio, including all statutes now or hereafter enacted.
The Commission shall adopt, and from time to time amend or modify, a general
plan for the municipality. It shall also submit annually to the Manager, not
less than ninety days prior to the beginning of the budget year, a list of
capital improvements which in the opinion of the Commission are necessary or
advisable to be constructed during the 5 year period then next ensuing. Such
list shall be arranged in order of preference, with recommendations as to the
scheduling of projects.
The Commission shall consider all petitions for amendment of the zoning plan of
the municipality referred to it by Council, and may on its own initiative
propose amendments to such zoning plan.
The Commission may conduct studies of, and related to, zoning and land use
planning for the municipality, and report to Council the results of such
studies, together with its recommendations.
The Commission shall meet not less than once each month and keep a public
record of its findings, resolutions, and determinations.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 3 ACTION OF COUNCIL NECESSARY.
No plan or code or amendment or modification thereof made, proposed, or
prepared by the Commission shall become effective unless and until embodied in
an ordinance passed by Council.
Petitions for change in the zoning plan or law shall be filed with the Clerk,
accompanied by a proposed ordinance effecting the change desired and by such
other information and data as the Commission may require. Such petitions shall
be reported by the Clerk to Council which shall forthwith refer them to the
Commission. The Commission shall hold public hearing thereon, with notice of
the time and place thereof posted on the official website of the municipality
or other official electronic media platform, and in the lobby of the municipal
building at least 10 days in advance of such hearing. The Commission shall, in
addition, give notice of any such hearing by letter to property owners where
property is located within 200 feet of the subject property and other deemed
interested parties by the City Manager, deposited in the mail 10 days in
advance of such hearing and addressed to their last known residences, in those
cases where the proposed change does not directly affect more than 30 such
owners. Following such hearing and within 45 days after reference of such
petitions to the Commission, it shall report to Council its recommendation with
regard to the proposed change. Following receipt of such report, Council shall
hold a public hearing on such proposed ordinance, with advanced notice in the
same manner as required for the public hearing held by the Commission.
No ordinance or measure amending the zoning plan or law or changing the general
plan for the municipality contrary to the recommendation of the Commission
shall be passed except upon the affirmative vote of 5 members of Council.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-
2017 (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 4 DELETED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY ORD. 17-04, PASSED 3-2-2017.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-
2017 (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
ARTICLE VIII. CIVIL SERVICE
§ 1 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
The Civil Service Commission of Madeira shall consist of three electors of the
municipality who shall serve for six year terms. One member shall be appointed
by the Board of Education of the Madeira School District and two members shall
be appointed by the Council. A vacancy occurring during the term of any member
of the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment of the
appropriate appointing authority. No member of the Commission shall hold any
other office or employment with the municipality.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
§ 2 DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
The Civil Service Commission shall provide for the ascertainment of merit and
fitness as the basis for appointment and promotion in the service of the
municipality as required by the Constitution of Ohio, and shall perform such
other duties as may be imposed upon it by the charter and ordinances of the
City of Madeira. The Civil Service Commission shall serve as the Commission for
the Madeira School District in accordance with Section 124.011, Ohio Revised
Code. The Commission shall have the power to subpoena witnesses and require
production of records.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
§ 3 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICE.
The civil service of the municipality is hereby divided into classified and
unclassified service. Classified service shall mean that all appointments and
promotions of such persons in the employment of the city shall be made
according to merit and fitness ascertained as far as practicable by competitive
examinations. Appointments and promotions of persons in the unclassified
service shall be made according to merit and fitness but are not practical to
place the positions in classified service.
   a.   The classified service shall include all the full-time sworn members of
the police department except the chief of police.
   b.   The unclassified service shall include the following:
      All officers elected by the people;
      The City Manager, Law Director, the Clerk, the Treasurer, the Chief of
Police, the Engineer and other professional persons employed or appointed by
Council;
      Members of Boards and Commissions;
      Full-time hourly workers;
      Part-time hourly workers.
Any positions hereafter established by Council shall be designated by ordinance
as a position which is to be in the classified or unclassified service.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
§ 4 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S PROCEDURES.
The Civil Service Commission shall adopt its own procedures for the conduct of
meetings and hearings. All procedures adopted by the Civil Service Commission
shall supersede and override statutes, rules and regulations of the State of
Ohio, including, but not limited to state civil service provisions.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
§ 5 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
The Council shall adopt by ordinance all rules and regulations which are not
procedural in nature and such rules and regulations shall supersede and
override statutes, rules and regulations of the State of Ohio, including, but
not limited to, state civil service provisions.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
ARTICLE IX. POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION
§ 1 POWERS.
The municipality shall have all powers to organize and maintain a police
department and a fire department, granted to municipalities by the Constitution
and the laws of Ohio, including all statutes now or hereafter enacted.
§ 2 POLICE PROTECTION.
The police department shall provide police services within the jurisdictional
limits of the municipality, including the preservation of the peace, the
protection of persons and property, and the enforcement of law. The department
shall be under the direction of a Chief of Police who shall report to the
Manager for administrative purposes.
§ 3 FIRE PROTECTION.
A municipal fire department may be organized by Council, under the direction of
a fire chief. If and when such department is established, it shall have the
responsibility for all fire protection services within the territorial limits
of the municipality. The fire chief shall in such event report to the Manager
for administrative purposes.
The municipality shall have the power to enter into contracts with one or more
townships, municipal corporations, or private fire companies obligating the
latter to render for periods not exceeding 5 years all fire protection services
needed within the territorial limits of the municipality.
Each such contract shall stipulate that it may be terminated before expiration,
by the affirmative vote of 5 members of Council, if public safety is endangered
because of any inadequacy of the services provided thereunder, or by ordinance
proposed by initiative petition and approved by a majority of the electors
voting thereon. Council may cause the properly qualified employees of any such
private fire company to be vested with all the powers granted to the members of
fire departments of municipalities by the laws of Ohio, including all statutes
now or hereafter enacted.
ARTICLE X. FINANCES
§ 1 TAXES.
Council shall annually levy a tax for current expense on real and personal
property in the municipality. The rate of such tax shall not exceed 7-1/2 mills
on the dollar of assessed valuation.
§ 2 EXTRA LEVY.
On or before the 15th day of September in any year Council may, by resolution
adopted by affirmative vote of not less than 5 of its members, declare that the
amount of money that may be raised by taxation under the preceding section,
together with all other funds available during the year, will be insufficient
to provide an adequate amount for the necessary requirements of the
municipality and that it is necessary to levy taxes in excess of said
limitations for the purpose of meeting the current expenses of the
municipality, and may require the submission of the question of levying such
additional tax to the electors of the municipality at the next November
election. Such resolution shall specify the additional rate of levy required
and the number of years during which such increased rate may be levied, which
shall not exceed two years. Such resolution shall take effect upon its adoption
and shall be certified by the Clerk forthwith to the election authorities who
shall place said question upon the ballot in the following form:
   For the approval of an additional levy of taxes by the City of Madeira at
the rate of                     mills to be used for the purpose of meeting
current expenses and to be effective during the tax year                    .
   Against the approval of an additional levy of taxes by the City of Madeira
at the rate of                mills to be used for the purpose of meeting
current expenses and to be effective during the tax year                    .
The question covered by such resolution shall be submitted as a separate
proposition. If a majority of those voting thereon vote for the approval of
such additional levy, Council shall immediately make such levy, or such part
thereof as it finds necessary, pursuant to such approval, and certify the same
to the county auditor to be placed on the tax list and collected as other
taxes.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-16-1965)
§ 3 BUDGET.
Within the time required by general law the Manager shall prepare and submit to
Council a budget covering an estimate of available funds and required
expenditures for the ensuing calendar year. Council shall by ordinance specify
the form of and information to be included in the budget. Such budget may be
amended by Council; shall be approved by Council as presented or amended; and
shall be the basis of any levy of taxes by Council or any request for an extra
tax levy.
§ 4 APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
On or before the first day of December in each year the Manager shall prepare
and submit to Council an appropriation ordinance, containing a financial plan
for conducting the affairs of the municipality during the ensuing year. Council
shall by ordinance specify the form of and the information to be included in
the appropriation ordinance. Council shall not act upon such ordinance prior to
its first regular December meeting. Council may provide for public hearing on
such ordinance, and may from time to time amend such ordinance in accordance
with its judgment and discretion. The appropriation ordinance may be passed
upon a single reading and shall become effective forthwith on its adoption.
§ 5 AUDITS.
The audit of all financial affairs of the municipality may be made by a
representative of the Auditor of the State of Ohio; or, City Council may, by
ordinance, employ the services of an independent certified public accountant
not already in the employ of the city or financially interested in any
transaction to be audited in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code. An audit as prescribed in this Charter shall be conducted at a minimum of
every two years.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-4-1975; amendment passed by the voters 6-9-
1992)
§ 6 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT RESERVE FUND.
Council shall create and maintain a capital improvement reserve fund, and may
from time to time transfer or appropriate thereto all moneys accruing to any
other fund of the municipality not needed for the purposes of such fund and
available for transfer under general law and also the unencumbered balance
remaining in the general fund of the municipality at the end of any fiscal
year. Moneys in the capital improvement reserve fund shall not be expended for
any purpose except to purchase equipment, apparatus, or other property, or to
construct buildings, structures, roads, and other public improvements, needed
for the use of the municipality, or to pay bonded obligations of the
municipality by means of transfer to its bond interest and retirement fund.
ARTICLE XI. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 1 TIME AND TAKING EFFECT.
All measures passed by Council shall be recorded, and all measures having the
force and effect of law shall be published once by title and in summary on the
official website of the municipality or other official electronic media
platform, and posted in the lobby of the municipal building. Measures passed by
Council shall, unless later date be specified therein, take effect as follows:
   A.   Measures to which the referendum is not applicable by the provisions of
this charter, immediately upon passage.
   B.   Emergency measures, to which Council has by an affirmative vote of not
less than 5 of its members added a section declaring the necessity to put such
measures into immediate force and effect in order to preserve the public peace,
order, safety, health or welfare of the municipality, or in order to provide
for the usual daily operation of a department or office of the municipality,
and also declaring specifically the reason for such necessity, immediately upon
passage; but no public utility franchise or rate ordinance shall be passed as
an emergency measure.
   C.   All other measures shall take effect and be in force 45 days after
their publication under the requirements of this charter, unless suspended by
the filing of a valid and sufficient referendum petition.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-
2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017); Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017
(Ord. 17-06, passed 3-13-2017))
ARTICLE XII. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, AND RECALL
§ 1 POWERS RESERVED.
The charter and the Constitution of the State of Ohio provide to the Electors
of the City of Madeira the right to amend the charter, to petition for
referendum to reject certain legislative acts or measures passed by Council and
to initiate the adoption of certain legislative acts without passage of such
act by Council. This Charter intends to protect the right of the Electors to
exercise those fundamental rights. The people of the municipality of Madeira
hereby reserve to themselves the legislative power of the initiative and
referendum and the power to amend the charter, to be exercised in accordance
with the provisions of this Charter.
If a petitioner is in compliance with the requirements herein for initiative,
referendum and charter amendments, the Clerk, Law Director and the Council
shall deem the respective petitions to be procedurally valid and sufficient,
and shall, without further inquiry, refer the matter forthwith to the Hamilton
County Board of Elections to be placed on a ballot at the appropriate regular
or special election. Petitioner shall be responsible for ensuring that the
petition is in compliance with the Constitution of Ohio and the Ohio Revised
Code, including, but not limited to, election laws.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998; Amendment passed by the voters 11-8-
2011)
§ 2 INITIATIVE.
   A.   Ordinances providing for the exercise of any powers of government
granted by the constitution or delegated by the General Assembly to charter
municipalities may be proposed by initiative petition.
   B.   The petitioner shall provide written notification to the Clerk of the
intent to circulate an initiative petition and solicit signatures and
concurrently file with the Clerk a certified copy of the proposed ordinance or
measure. “Certified copy” means a copy containing a written statement, on the
face of the document, by the petitioner, attesting that it is a true and
accurate reproduction of the original proposed ordinance or measure. The Clerk
shall receive the documents and provide the petitioner with a receipt that
contains the date, seal and the signature of the Clerk. The Clerk shall keep
the copy of the proposed ordinance or measure available for inspection by any
interested party.
   C.   The Clerk shall request the Law Director to make a determination of
whether the proposed ordinance or measure is a legislative action subject to an
initiative or an administrative action not subject to an initiative, which
determination shall be made within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed
ten (10) business days.
   D.   After circulation of said petition, petitioners shall file with the
Clerk, all separate petition papers, including the signatures of the electors
of the City of Madeira, at the same time, as one instrument.
   E.   Such initiative petition must contain the signatures of not less than
one-fifth of the total number of electors who voted in the preceding general
election. Election statistics are available at the Hamilton County Board of
Elections. The form, content, verification of and other requirements for
initiative petitions shall be those prescribed by the constitution and the
general laws of the State of Ohio relating to initiative petitions, except as
otherwise provided in this charter.
   F.   The circulator of an initiative petition, or his agent, shall, within
five days after such petition is filed with the Clerk, file an itemized
statement, made under penalty of election falsification, according to Ohio Law.
   G.   The Clerk shall review the petition for the purpose of determining
whether it is valid and sufficient according to law and this Charter. A
petition shall be deemed procedurally valid and sufficient, without further
inquiry, if: (1) the petitioner has filed the certified copy with the Clerk as
required herein prior to circulation of said petition and (2) the petition
appears to contain the minimum number of required signatures.
   H.   At the first regular meeting of Council which occurs more than ten days
after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall present the text of the
proposed ordinance to Council with a certification stating whether the petition
has been determined to be valid and sufficient.
   I.   If the petition has been determined by the Clerk to not be valid or
sufficient, Council need not take any further action. If the ordinance
initiated by petition is certified by the Clerk to be valid and sufficient,
then Council shall hold a public hearing thereon. The public hearing shall be
set for a regular Council meeting not more than thirty (30) days after the
Council meeting at which the ordinance was present by the Clerk. Notice of the
time and place of the public hearing shall be made by posting on the official
website of the municipality or other official electronic media platform, and in
the lobby of the municipal building at least ten (10) days in advance of such
meeting.
   J.   At said meeting, after said public hearing, Council shall either adopt
the proposed ordinance or submit the question of its adoption to the electors
at the next succeeding primary or general election or at a special election if
there is no general or primary election within 120 days of Council’s decision
to submit the question to the electors. Initiative ordinances approved by a
majority of the electors voting thereon shall take effect on the fifth day
after the day on which the Board of Elections certifies the official vote
thereon or on the date specified in such ordinance, whichever is later. All
other matters relating to the exercise of the initiative powers of the electors
shall be as determined by the Revised Code of the State of Ohio.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998; Amendment passed by the voters 11-8-
2011; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017);
Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-06, passed 3-13-2017))
§ 3 REFERENDUM.
   A.   The referendum shall not be applicable to administrative acts,
including, (a) ordinances making or transferring annual appropriations, or
amendments thereto, (b) measures providing for the discharge of any obligation
legally due from the municipality, (c) measures submitting any measure to a
vote of the electors, (d) measures directing the performance of any official
duty or providing for investigations or reports, (e) measures not having the
force or effect of law, (f) repealing measures passed by Council pursuant to
referendum petitions, or (g) measures relating to any public improvement
subsequent to the ordinance determining to proceed therewith.
   B.   Prior to or concurrently with the passage of an ordinance or measure by
the Council, the Law Director shall indicate whether or not the ordinance or
measure is subject to referendum under the charter and Ohio law.
   C.   Petitions for referendum on an ordinance or measure shall be filed
within thirty days after the Council has passed the ordinance or measure that
is subject to a referendum.
   D.   If the referendum is applicable to a measure, the passage of the
measure as an emergency shall not make the referendum inapplicable, However,
the emergency measure shall take effect pending the outcome of the referendum.
The taking effect of any other measure shall be postponed by the timely filing
of a valid and sufficient referendum petition.
   E.   The petitioner shall provide written notification to the Clerk of the
intent to circulate a referendum petition and solicit signatures and
concurrently file with the Clerk a certified copy of the ordinance or measure
that is the subject to the referendum. “Certified copy” means a copy, obtained
by petitioner from the Clerk, containing a written statement by the Clerk, on
the face of the document, attesting that it is a true and exact reproduction of
the legislation passed by Council.
   F.   After circulation of said petition, petitioners shall file with the
Clerk, all separate petition papers, including the signatures of the electors
of the City of Madeira, at the same time, as one instrument. Each referendum
petition must contain the signatures of not less than one-fifth of the total
number of electors who voted in the preceding general election. Election
statistics and other information pertaining to referendum petitions and
elections are available at the Hamilton County Board of Elections. The form,
content, verification of and other requirements for referendum petitions shall
be those prescribed by the constitution and the general laws of the State of
Ohio relating to referendum petitions except as otherwise provided by this
Charter.
   G.   The circulator of a referendum petition, or his agent, shall, within
five days after such petition is filed with the Clerk, file an itemized
statement, made under penalty of election falsification, according to Ohio Law.
   H.   The Clerk shall review the petition for the purpose of determining
whether it is valid and sufficient according to law and this charter. A
petition shall be deemed procedurally valid and sufficient, without further
inquiry, if: (1) the petitioner has filed the certified copy with the Clerk as
required herein prior to circulation of said petition, (2) the petition appears
to contain the minimum number of required signatures, and (3) the petition is
timely filed within the 30 day period set forth herein.
   I.   At the first regular meeting of Council which occurs more than ten (10)
days after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall refer the proposed
referendum to Council with a certification stating whether the petition has
been determined to be valid and sufficient.
   J.   If the petition has been determined by the Clerk to not be valid or
sufficient, Council need not take any further action. If the referendum
petition is certified by the Clerk to be valid and sufficient, then Council
shall hold a public hearing thereon. The public hearing shall be set for a
regular Council meeting not more than thirty (30) days after the Council
meeting at which the referendum petition was present by the Clerk. Notice of
the time and place of the public hearing shall be made by posting on the
official website of the municipality or other official electronic media
platform, and in the lobby of the municipal building at least ten (10) days in
advance of such meeting.
   K.   At said meeting, after said public hearing, Council shall either repeal
the measure against which such petition is directed or take such action as may
be required to submit it to the vote of the electors of the municipality at the
next succeeding primary or general election, or at a special election if there
is no general or primary election within one hundred twenty (120) days of
Council’s decision to submit the question to the electors. If the measure
against which such petition is rejected by a majority of the electors voting
thereon, it shall be deemed repealed as of the fifth day after the day on which
the Board of Elections certifies the official vote thereon. If, however, it is
not rejected and it has already gone into effect, it shall remain in effect; if
it is not rejected and has not yet gone into effect, it shall take effect on
such fifth day or as soon as all other conditions for its taking effect have
occurred whichever is later. All other matters relating to the exercise of the
powers of referendum of the electors shall be as determined by the Revised Code
of the State of Ohio.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998; Amendment passed by the voters 11-8-
2011; Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-03, passed 3-2-2017);
Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017 (Ord. 17-06, passed 3-13-2017))
§ 4 RECALL.
Any elective officer of this municipal government may be removed from his such
office, and the successor thereto elected, by the qualified electors of the
municipality in the same manner and pursuant to the requirements and with the
effect prescribed by § 705.92 of the Revised Code of Ohio as it provides on the
date of adoption of this charter, as though the terms of said section were
fully herein set forth, except that the question of any such removal of any
such officer may be submitted to such electors after, but only after, such
officer has been in office for 6 months of the term thereof during which he is
sought to be recalled. The provisions for recall hereinabove in this charter
made shall not be nullified or altered by any repeal or amendment of said
section after such date of adoption.
ARTICLE XIII. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 1 ELECTIONS.
   a.   A regular municipal election shall be held on the first Tuesday after
the first Monday in November in the odd numbered years. The Council may by
ordinance order a special election at any time, for any purpose, which purpose
shall be set forth in the ordinance. Any matter which by the terms of this
charter may be submitted to the electors of the municipality at any special
election may be submitted at the time of a primary election or of a general
election.
   b.   The full names of all candidates nominated shall be printed on the
official ballot beneath the title of the office for which they are candidates
and shall be rotated as provided by the general election laws.
   c.   A blank space shall be provided under the title of each office and
below the name or names of the candidate or candidates for that office, wherein
an elector may write in the name of a person, not printed on the ballot, for
whom he/she wishes to vote.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-1998)
§ 2 NOMINATIONS.
   a.   Candidates for all municipal offices shall be nominated by individual
nominating petitions only.
   b.   Nominating petitions shall be substantially in the form prescribed by
Section 3513.261 of the Ohio Revised Code for the nomination of individual
nonpartisan candidates. In addition, a nominating petition shall contain the
sworn statement of the candidate that he/she is, or will be at the time of the
commencement of the term of the office he seeks, qualified to hold such office
under the provisions of this charter.
   c.   Each nominating petition shall be signed by not less than 25 nor more
than 50 electors and may be in a number of parts, but each part shall be
verified under oath by the circulator as required by the election laws of the
State of Ohio.
   d.   Nominating petitions shall be circulated not more than 150 days from
the date of the election and filed by or on behalf of each candidate at least
75 days prior to the date of the election.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1982; Amendment passed by the voters 11-3-
1998)
§ 3 BALLOTS.
The ballots used in all elections provided for in this charter shall be without
party marks or designations. If the election authorities prescribed by general
law adopt any mechanical or other devices or equipment for use in voting and
the tabulating of votes in any election for any office of the municipality and
the number of candidates for such office is greater than the then number of
voting precincts in the municipality, the ballots to be printed for such
election shall be printed in such number of series as equals the number of such
precincts. In all other cases the number of series to be printed shall equal
the number of candidates for such office.
In any case, however, the first series shall be printed with the names of the
candidates arranged in an order to be determined by lot. The first name shall
then be placed last, each other name shall be moved up one place, and the next
series printed; and this process shall be repeated, series by series, in order
that each name shall appear an equal number of times (as nearly as practicable
and as nearly as the number of series permits) at the top, at the bottom, and
in each intermediate place, if any, of the ballot under the title of the office
sought. Seven spaces shall in any case be left below the printed names of the
candidates, wherein the voter may write the name of any person or persons for
whom he may wish to vote.
If general law requires in connection with any mechanical or other voting and
vote tabulating devices or equipment adopted by the election authorities
prescribed by general law for use in any such election, that all ballots within
a precinct be of the same series, the first series printed shall be used within
the precinct that is first in the alphabetical (or numerical) order of the
precincts in the municipality, the second series shall be used within the
second precinct in such order of precincts, and so forth. If it shall under
such circumstances be necessary to use the same series in more than one
precinct, the first series printed shall be used within the precinct that is
next in such order of precincts after the precinct within which the last series
printed is used, the second series shall be used within the precinct second
next in such order of precincts after that within which the last series printed
is used, and so forth in regular rotation.
Council shall by ordinance establish a procedure for the making of such
determinations by lot as are required by the provisions of this section.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-16-1965)
§ 4 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS AND CANVASS OF VOTES.
All elections shall be conducted and the results canvassed and certified by the
election authorities prescribed by general law, and all other matters relating
to elections not herein or by ordinance of Council specifically provided for
shall be determined by such general law.
§ 5 WHO ELECTED.
The candidates for any elective office, equal in number to the places to be
filled, who shall receive the highest number of votes at such election shall be
declared elected thereto.
ARTICLE XIV. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1 PUBLICITY OF RECORDS.
All records and accounts of every office, department, or agency of the
municipality shall be maintained at the main municipal building and shall be
open to inspection by any citizen, any representative of a citizens’
organization, or any representative of the press at all reasonable times and
under reasonable regulations established by the Manager, except records and
documents the disclosure of which would tend to defeat the lawful purpose which
they are intended to accomplish or serve.
§ 2 PERSONAL INTEREST.
No member of Council nor any official appointed by Council shall have a
substantial financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract with the
municipal government, or in the sale thereto, or to any person selling thereto,
of any land, material, supplies, or services, or rights therein. Willful
violation of this section shall constitute misconduct in office. If at the time
any such contract with the municipal government is made the contractor knows or
circumstances are such that he may more reasonably than not be assumed to have
knowledge of any such prohibited interest, such contract shall be voidable by
the Manager or by Council.
§ 3 OFFICIAL BONDS.
The Manager and the Treasurer, and such other officials appointed by Council as
may by ordinance be required so to do, shall give bond for the faithful
performance of their respective duties as such officials, in such amount as may
be required and with surety as approved, by Council.
§ 4 SEPARABILITY.
If any section or part of a section of this charter shall be held
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not
affect the validity, force, or governance of the remainder of this charter.
§ 5 AMENDING THE CHARTER.
   A.   This charter may be amended in the following manner, as provided by the
Constitution of Ohio. Amendments to this charter may be submitted to the
electors of the municipality by a 2/3 vote of Council, or, upon petitions
signed by ten percentum of the electors of the municipality. Election
statistics are available at the Hamilton County Board of Elections. The
submission of such amendments to the electors shall be governed by the same
requirements as govern the submission of the question of choosing a Charter
Commission; and copies of such amendments shall be mailed to the electors as
required in the case of this original charter.
   B.   Petitioners shall file with the Council, all separate petition papers,
including proposed charter amendment and the signatures of the electors of the
City of Madeira, at the same time, as one instrument. For purposes of this
section, filing with the Clerk of proposed amendments along with the petitions
signed by ten percentum of the electors of the municipality shall constitute
filing with the Council.
   C.   The Clerk shall forthwith transmit the complete petition to each member
of the Council. If the petition appears to contain the minimum number of
required signatures, the Council shall presume, without further inquiry that
the petition is procedurally valid and sufficient and immediately refer the
matter to the Hamilton County Board of Elections to be placed on a ballot at
the appropriate regular or special election.
   D.   The ordinance providing for the submission of such question must
require that it be submitted to the electors at the next regular municipal
election if one will occur not less than 60 days or no more than 120 days after
its passage; otherwise, it must provide for the submission of the charter
amendment at a special election to be called and held within that time. To
submit a proposed charter amendment to the electors at a special election, the
Council must establish the date for the election.
   E.   Not less than 30 days prior to such election, the Clerk shall mail a
copy of the proposed charter amendment to each elector whose name appears on
the poll or registration books of the last regular or general election held in
Madeira.
   F.   If any such charter amendment is approved by a majority of the electors
voting thereon, it shall become a part of this charter. A copy of any approved
charter amendment must be certified by the Clerk to the Secretary of State
within 30 days after adoption.
(Amendment passed by the voters 11-2-1981; Amendment passed by the voters 11-8-
2011)
ARTICLE XV. EFFECTIVE DATE AND EFFECTS OF ADOPTION
§ 1 EFFECTIVE DATE.
This charter shall take effect and be in force from and after certification of
its adoption by the election authorities of Hamilton County.
§ 2 EFFECT ON PRESENT OFFICES.
The existing offices of members of Council, Mayor, Clerk, and Treasurer are
hereby abolished by this charter from and after its effective date. The 6
members of Council and the Mayor elected by the electors of the Village of
Madeira in November, 1957, shall upon this charter taking effect have and
exercise all the powers and duties of members of Council as prescribed in this
charter and shall serve as such until their successors elected in 1959 shall
take office, and such Mayor shall, in addition, have and exercise all the
powers and duties of the Mayor as prescribed in this Charter and shall serve as
such until the members of Council elected in 1959 shall take office. The Clerk
and Treasurer of the Village of Madeira elected in November, 1957, shall
respectively have and exercise the powers and duties of the Clerk and Treasurer
as prescribed in this charter and shall serve as such, unless earlier combined,
until their respective successors are appointed by the Council elected in 1959.
The existing offices of members of the Planning Commission are by this charter
abolished, and the provisions of §
l of Article VII hereof shall by Council be implemented, effective January 1,
1960.
§ 3 EFFECT ON PRESENT ORDINANCES.
All ordinances and other measures of the village in force when this charter
takes effect and not inconsistent therewith shall continue in force until
amended or repealed by Council. All rules and regulations of the Planning
Commission of the village in force when this charter takes effect and not
inconsistent therewith shall continue in force until amended or repealed by the
Planning Commission and Council.
§ 4 EFFECT ON PRESENT CONTRACTS.
All contracts entered into and obligations incurred by the village or for its
benefit prior to the taking effect of this charter shall continue in full force
and operation.
ARTICLE XVI. MADEIRA HISTORIC DISTRICT/PRESERVATION
§ 1 MADEIRA HISTORIC DISTRICT/PRESERVATION.
The City of Madeira was deeded and assumed ownership of the “Hosbrook House”
located at 7014 Miami Ave. and the “Muchmore House” located at 7010 Miami Ave.
In addition to these two properties the City also has ownership of the historic
Railroad Depot located at 7701 Railroad Ave. These three important and historic
properties are to be preserved, protected, and left standing on the same ground
that the structures were built upon. These three historic structures will be
included in the “Historic District”.
(Amendment passed by the voters ___________(Ord. 15-05, passed 3-9-2015))
ARTICLE XVII. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 1 APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members, each of whom shall
be appointed by a majority of Council. All persons appointed as members to the
Board shall be qualified electors of the municipality. Council shall make
initial appointments effective August 1, 2017, as follows: three persons shall
be appointed as members for terms of four years, with the fourth year of their
term ending on December 31, 2020, and two persons shall be appointed as members
for terms of two years, with the second year of their term ending on December
31, 2019.
Thereafter all persons shall be appointed for four year terms commencing on
January 1st of the appointed year and shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed. Any vacancies shall be filled in the manner in which
the original appointment was made to serve for the respective unexpired term.
No person may serve on the Planning Commission and the Board concurrently.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017; (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 2 MEETINGS.
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall meet not less than once each month, and keep
a public record of its findings, resolutions, and determinations.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017; (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 3 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have all the powers granted to, and perform
all the duties imposed upon, boards of zoning appeals by the laws of Ohio,
including all statutes now or hereafter enacted.
Any decision of a public official made in the administration of the city’s
zoning ordinance may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance
with the procedures established by ordinance. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
have the authority to interpret provisions of the zoning ordinance and to
confirm, modify or reverse the zoning decision of the public official. The
Board of Zoning Appeals shall follow the procedures and standards as
established by ordinance, laws and decisions of courts having jurisdiction over
the City of Madeira.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017; (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
§ 4 VARIANCES.
Upon application, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider applications for
variance in accordance with the standards established by ordinance. The Board
of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to grant relief from the strict
application of the zoning ordinances. No variances shall be granted and no
decision of a public official regarding the administration of the zoning
ordinance shall be reversed except upon the affirmative vote of a majority of
the members of the Board.
When any such appeal or variance is filed, the Board shall hold a public
hearing on each appeal and variance, with notice of the time and place thereof
posted on the official website of the municipality and in the lobby of the
municipal building at least 10 days in advance of such hearing. The Board
shall, in addition, give notice of any such hearing by letter to property
owners where property is located within 200 feet of the subject property and
other deemed interested parties by the City Manager, deposited in the mail 10
days in advance of such hearing and addressed to their last known residences,
in those cases where the proposed change does not directly affect more than 30
such owners.
(Amendment passed by the voters 5-2-2017; (Ord. 17-04, passed 3-2-2017))
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Madeira municipal code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in
this code shall denote the municipality of Madeira irrespective of its
population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Hamilton County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05(A).
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The City Council of the City of Madeira.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of
Madeira, Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01) (Prior Code, § 10.02) (Ord. 88-39,
passed 10-3-1988)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in the code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not Saturday, Sunday or other
days the city is closed.
      (4)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (5)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (6)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal Charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections or divisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different meetings
of the legislative authority, one amendment without reference to another, the
amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to
each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of
enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language deleted
by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an earlier
amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable. Amendments
are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably be put into
simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the city, this
code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the provisions of
a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All
prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the city shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add,
or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Madeira Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Madeira Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Madeira Code of Ordinances,
reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Madeira Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
  Example: (R.C. § 2921.33.1)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
  Example:
§ 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
          Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the legislative authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION
      
33.   CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   CIVIL SERVICE
      
35.   MAYOR’S COURT
      
36.   CIVIL ACTIONS AGAINST THE MUNICIPALITY
      
37.   PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
      
38.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   City Council
   
30.02   Procedure and rules of Council
   
30.03   Ordinances and resolutions
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Members and terms, see
Charter Art. III, § l.
   (B)   Qualifications, see
Charter Art. III, § 2.
   (C)   Quorum and voting, see
Charter Art. III, § 4.
   (D)   Removals and vacancies, see
Charter Art. III, § 5.
   (E)   Salaries, see
Charter Art. III, § 6.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 PROCEDURE AND RULES OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Council meetings.
      (1)   Definition. For purposes of
Chapter 30 of the Madeira Code of Ordinances, PREFERRED ELECTRONIC PLATFORM
shall mean: the teleconference; video conference; or any other similar
electronic technology the city specifically selects to conduct its meetings to
allow for remote participation.
      (2)   Conducting meetings. Council shall conduct its regular and special
meetings by means of teleconference, video conference or any other similar
electronic technology. Members of Council are hereby authorized to remotely
attend, participate and vote during all public meetings and hearings.
      (3)   Quorum. Regardless of whether a member of Council participates in
person or remotely, such member shall be counted present for purposes of
determining whether quorum requirements are satisfied, provided:
         (a)   The member affirmatively responds when roll is called at the
outset of the subject meeting or hearing; or
         (b)   The member’s participation is audibly identified on the record
during the meeting or subsequently denoted on the approved minutes for the
subject meeting
      (4)   Timing. Regular Council meetings shall be held on the second and
fourth Monday of each month, unless Council exercises discretion to otherwise
cancel one of its regular monthly meetings. Regular Council meetings shall
convene at 7:30 p.m. In December, there shall be one regular meeting of Council
which shall be held during the first week of the month on the day designated by
Council or, in an election year, as provided in division (A)(6) below. If a
holiday falls on a Monday in which a regular meeting of Council is scheduled,
that meeting shall be held on Tuesday of the same week.
      (5)   Notice. At least 24 hours in advance of the start of all regular
and special meetings, Council shall provide notification of the time, location
and the manner by which the meeting will be conducted to the public via the
city’s website - www.madeiracity.com, the city’s Facebook page and Twitter
account and to media that have requested notification of meetings. Such
notification shall provide a link to the preferred electronic platform so that
the public and media requesting notification can access the discussions and
deliberations of Council.
      (6)   Installation meeting. Council, following its election, shall hold
an installation and organizational meeting on the first day of December
following such election. Unless notice is provided to the contrary, that
meeting shall convene at 7:30 p.m.
   (B)   Executive sessions.
      (1)   All official action shall be taken, and all deliberations upon
official business shall be conducted by Council only in open meetings, except
that Council may hold an executive session at a regular or special meeting by
either placing the item on the agenda or, if not, previously placed on the
agenda, by motion of Council and consent of majority present (but at least five
votes to consent at a special meeting) and voting (notwithstanding any
provisions under R.C. § 121.22), for the sole purpose of considering any of the
following matters:
         (a)   To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
promotion, demotion or compensation of a public employee or official, or the
investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee or official;
         (b)   1.   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes,
or for the sale of property at competitive bidding, if premature disclosure of
information would give an unfair competitive or bargaining advantage to a
person whose personal or private interest is adverse to the general public
interest. No public employee or official shall use this division (B)(1)(b)1. as
a subterfuge for providing covert information to prospective buyers or sellers.
A purchase or sale of public property is void if the seller or buyer of the
public property has received covert information from a member that has not been
disclosed to the general public in sufficient time for other prospective buyers
and sellers to prepare and submit offers; and
            2.   If the minutes of Council show that all meetings and
deliberations of Council have been conducted in compliance with this section,
any instrument executed by Council purporting to convey, lease or otherwise
dispose of any right, title or interest in any public property shall be
conclusively presumed to have been executed in compliance with this section
insofar as title or other interest of any bona fide purchasers, lessors or
transferees of the property is concerned.
         (c)   Conferences with any attorney for the city concerning disputes
involving the city that are subject of pending, possible or imminent court
action, or to discuss legal opinions of the Law Director on such matters that
could reasonably involve future litigation;
         (d)   Preparing for, conducting or renewing negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation or other terms and
conditions of their employment, as well as all other personnel matters where
disclosure of the information is deemed detrimental to the city or an employee;
         (e)   Matters which are required to be kept confidential by federal
law, federal rules or state statutes; and
         (f)   Specialized details of security arrangements where disclosure of
the matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for the
purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for, a violation of the law.
      (2)   Executive sessions shall be limited to Council members, except that
those public officials or other persons who are necessary or helpful for the
discussion of the subject matter of the executive session may be included upon
invitation of the Council members requesting the executive session with the
consent of a majority of Council.
      (3)   No Council member shall disclose or use, without appropriate
authorization by the majority of Council members, any information acquired in
the course of his or her official duties which has been clearly designated by
the majority of Council members to him or her as confidential. Such
confidential designation is warranted whenever the status of the proceedings,
the circumstances under which the information was received or the nature of the
information necessitates that its confidentiality is necessary to the proper
conduct of governmental business.
   (C)   Additional procedure. In addition to any legislative procedure
prescribed by the City Charter, the following additional rules are hereby
adopted for the expeditious functioning of Council.
      (1)   Meeting minutes. As Council deliberates whether to approve minutes
for previous meetings, the proposed minutes need not be read in full. Instead,
any member of Council may suggest specific corrections to the proposed meeting
minutes, which shall be considered by Council before voting whether to approve
the subject minutes.
      (2)   Titles and voting. Ordinances and resolutions shall be read aloud
by title only unless any Council member requests that it be read in full.
Attachments or exhibits to ordinances or resolutions need not be read aloud in
full unless specifically requested by any Council member. The Clerk of Council
shall read ordinances and resolutions as directed by the Chairperson. The vote
on any ordinance, resolution or motion shall be by voice on roll call. The vote
on the election or confirmation of the appointment of any person to any office
shall be by voice on roll call as aforesaid. The Clerk shall call the roll in
order that alters the sequence of votes by Council members.
      (3)   Consent agenda. The agenda for all meetings of Council shall be
prepared under the direction of the City Manager. Routine and noncontroversial
items appearing on the Council agenda may be designated by the City Manager to
signify such items are a part of the consent agenda. There will be no separate
discussion of any consent agenda item unless a Council member so requests, in
which case, the item will be removed from the consent agenda and shall be acted
upon as a separate matter, subject to discussion and debate. In the absence of
such request, consent agenda items may be collectively approved by one motion
of Council. Any request to remove a matter from the consent agenda must be made
prior to the Council vote collectively approving all matters on the consent
agenda.
   (D)   The Chair; powers and duties.
      (1)   Roll call. The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the Vice-Mayor,
shall take the chair at the hour appointed for Council to meet, and shall
immediately call the members to order. The roll shall then be called by the
Clerk, or shall enter in the minutes of the meeting the names of the members
present. In the absence of a quorum at the time appointed for a meeting, the
members present may, by a majority vote of those present, take a recess or
recesses and direct the Clerk to procure the attendance of absent members.
      (2)   Temporary Chairperson. In case of absence of the Mayor and Vice-
Mayor, the Clerk shall call Council to order and call the roll of the members.
If a quorum is found to be present, Council shall proceed to elect, by a
majority vote of those present, a Chairperson of the meeting, to act until the
Mayor or Vice-Mayor appears.
      (3)   Decision of the Chair. The Chair shall preserve decorum and decide
all questions of order. The Chair may call such recesses during a Council
meeting as the Chair may deem appropriate.
      (4)   Votes. All questions shall be stated and put by the Chair and it
shall not be in order for members to explain their votes during the call of the
roll.
      (5)   Presiding officer; leaving Chair. The presiding officer at a
meeting may call any other member to take his or her place in the Chair, but
the substitution shall not extend beyond adjournment. PRESIDING OFFICER means
either the Mayor, Vice-Mayor or Chairperson of the meeting.
      (6)   Motions to be stated by withdrawal. When a motion is made and
seconded, it shall be stated by the Clerk before debate. Any member may demand
that it be reduced to writing. A motion may not be withdrawn by the mover
without the consent of the member who seconded it.
   (E)   Members: duties and privileges.
      (1)   Addressing Chair. Every member speaking to a question or making a
motion, shall address the Chair. Members addressing Council shall confine
themselves to the question under debate and avoid personalities.
      (2)   Voting. Every member present when a question is put shall vote
either yes, no or abstain.
      (3)   Excusal during meeting. Any member desiring to be excused while
Council is in session, shall obtain such permission from the Chair.
   (F)   The agenda.
      (1)   Agendas. Depending on the nature of the subject meeting, Council
may choose to organize its agenda for regular meetings based on the following
general outline of items:
         (a)   Call to order by Mayor or Vice-Mayor;
         (b)   Invocation and/or Pledge of Allegiance;
         (c)   Roll call by Clerk;
         (d)   Approval of agenda, including adoption of consent agenda items;
         (e)   Approval of meeting minutes for the preceding meeting;
         (f)   Notices of other meetings or upcoming events;
         (g)   Public comment: the Chairperson may choose to allow members of
the public to address Council subject to the following conditions:
            1.   In order for an individual to address Council, he or she must:
               a.   Be physically present in the Council Chambers located at
7141 Miami Avenue, Madeira, Ohio 45243 (or whatever location Council conducts
the subject meeting); or
               b.   Submit their comment via email to
citymeetings@madeiracity.org no less than eight hours prior to the meeting. For
individuals wishing to comment remotely via a call-in option, they must specify
this request in their email. They will be provided with call-in instructions no
less than two hours prior to the meeting. Email submissions must include the
individual’s first and last name, their residential address, and the topic of
their comment.
            2.   The Chairperson may limit public comments to five minutes per
person.
            3.   After the Chairperson identifies the member of the public who
has satisfied the conditions set forth in divisions (F)(g)1.a. and (F)(g)1.b.
of this section, the individual should begin their comments by audibly
identifying themselves and providing their residential address.
            4.   The Chairperson may impose additional rules based upon the
business before Council, including, but not limited to, imposing restrictions
on repetitive comments, harassment or comments which do not reasonably relate
to the business before Council during the subject meeting.
            5.   The Chairperson shall discourage debate between members of
Council and audience members providing public comment, but may refer matters
raised during this portion of the meeting to the appropriate committee, or
public official.
         (h)   The Chairperson may acknowledge and reference communications the
city or its officials have received, which are determined to be additive to
Council’s execution of public business;
         (i)   Reports from standing committees: Administration and Personnel;
Budget and Finances; Public Works; Safety and Senior Services; Legislative
Review and Insurance; Economic Development; Parks and Recreation; reports of
any special committees; and additional reports or announcements of Council
members;
         (j)   Ordinances and resolutions;
         (k)   Old business;
         (l)   New business;
         (m)   Executive session(s) may be placed on the agenda in any order
deemed appropriate for the orderly conduct of business by Council; and
         (n)   Adjournment.
      (2)   Responsive agendas. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Council may
choose to reorder or forego discussion pertaining to any of the aforementioned
agenda items during any meeting upon affirmative approval of Council. Agendas
should conform and be responsive to the Council’s need to conduct public
business in an expeditious manner.
   (G)   Committees.
      (1)   Appointment. The Mayor shall appoint all committees of Council. The
Mayor shall consult individually with all members of Council prior to any such
appointments.
      (2)   Standing committee. Standing committees shall consist of a
Chairperson and two members. An alternative member may be appointed to each
committee but shall not attend committee meetings unless specifically invited
by other committee members, provided the total Council members present do not
exceed three. The duties of the standing committees of Council shall be
established by the Mayor but shall in no event delegate to any committee any
decision-making or rule-making power vested in Council as a whole. The duties
and responsibilities shall be limited to fact finding, investigation and
recommendation to Council. The standing committees shall be as follows:
         (a)   Administration and Personnel. Responsible for reviewing staff
levels, contract issues, salary benefit packages; include the performance
review of Council’s appointed employees and Civil Service Commission;
         (b)   Budget and Finances. Responsible for working with the Treasurer
in reviewing the annual budget, capital improvement financing and other
finance-related matters;
         (c)   Public Works. Responsible for reviewing all city proposed
capital improvements projects, Public Works Department procedures/programs and
other public works related matters;
         (d)   Law and Safety. Responsible for reviewing all Police/Fire
Department issues and services, staffing levels and other related matters;
responsible for reviewing all proposed legislation of counsel having the force
and effect of law; and responsible for reviewing the city’s insurance coverage;
         (e)   Economic Development. Responsible for reviewing any project,
zone changes, other issue or concept as it relates to the impact on expanding
the city’s economic base; to include, but not be limited to, subdivisions,
commercial developments or expansions and annexations; and
         (f)   Parks and Recreation. Responsible for reviewing any issues
regarding park and/or recreation services, recreation programs, park
development and planning park capital improvement projects. Responsible for
senior citizen services.
      (3)   Special committee. 
         (a)   The Chair may, at its discretion or, upon action of a majority
of Council members (four votes) establish special committees of Council for a
temporary time period.
         (b)   Special committees shall consist of not more than three members
of Council and may be established for any purpose not in conflict with the
responsibilities of standing committees.
      (4)   Meetings of standing and special committees. Standing and special
committees shall meet on call of the committee Chairperson or any two members.
      (5)   Limitation of powers. Standing and special committees shall not be
vested with the rule-making or decision-making power of Council, but shall
function as an investigative body that shall report and recommend to Council
regarding the matters referred to it.
      (6)   Reports. The committees will study and report back to Council its
findings and recommendations regarding any issue referred to the committees by
Council. Reports are to be in writing. Minority reports are permitted.
      (7)   Relieving from further consideration. Upon motion, Council may, by
a majority vote, relieve a standing or special committee of further
consideration of a matter referred to it, and order the same placed on the
agenda.
      (8)   Major public improvement. Any committee investigating or studying
any project that could lead to a major public improvement shall consult with
the Planning Commission.
   (H)   General.
      (1)   Procedure in absence of rule. In the absence of a rule to govern a
point of procedure the Council shall establish the rule.
      (2)   Tie vote. In case of a tie in votes on any proposal, the proposal
shall be considered lost.
      (3)   Anonymous communications. Unsigned communications shall not be
introduced in Council meetings.
      (4)   Recognition by Chair. No Council member, official or member of the
audience shall speak during a Council meeting without having first been
recognized by the Chair, except at the beginning of a meeting as provided
elsewhere in this section.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 89-92, passed 2-19-1990; Ord. 94-04, passed 2-7-
1994; Ord. 95-78, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 96-08, passed 1-22-1996; Ord. 96-40,
passed 8-26-1996; Ord. 97-27, passed 7-28-1997; Ord. 20-06, passed 4-13-2020;
Ord. 24-01, passed 3-11-2024)
Charter reference:
   Meetings of Council, see
Charter Art. III, § 3
§ 30.03 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Time of taking effect, see
Charter Art. XI, § l.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Officials
   
31.01   Mayor
   
31.02   Vice-Mayor
   
31.03   Manager and Deputy Manager
   
31.04   Authority when Manager position is vacant
   
31.05   Law Director
   
31.06   Architectural Review Officer
   
31.07   Finance Director
General Provisions
   
31.20   Appointment and removal of officials
   
31.21   Creation and abolishment of offices
   
31.22   Personal interest
   
31.23   Official bonds
   
31.24   Temporary absence from office
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 MAYOR.
   Election and powers, see
Charter Art. III, § 7.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 VICE-MAYOR.
   Election, see
Charter Art. III, § 8.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 MANAGER AND DEPUTY MANAGER.
   (A)   Manager. Appointment and duties, see
Charter Art. IV.
   (B)   Deputy Manager. Appointment and duties,
see Charter Art. VI, § 2. The City Manager is hereby authorized to fill the
vacancy and employ said person in accordance with the terms attached to
Ordinance 89-02 as Schedule A which is hereby adopted by reference as if fully
set out herein. Copies are on file in the City Manager’s office at the City
Municipal Building.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 89-02, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 31.04 AUTHORITY WHEN MANAGER POSITION IS VACANT.
   During the period after the effective date of the Charter of this
municipality and prior to the appointment of a Manager as required by the
Charter, and during all subsequent periods between the end of term of any
particular Manager (whether the termination is by reason of death, resignation,
removal or otherwise) and the appointment of his or her successor:
   (A)   It shall not be necessary for warrants for the expenditure of
municipal funds to be countersigned;
   (B)   Council shall have authority to make appointments, suspensions and
removals of the Chief of Police and the heads of all departments, and all
personnel subordinate to it, but subject to such restrictions as may be imposed
by the Charter relative to civil service; and to authorize expenditures; and
   (C)   The Clerk shall prepare the annual budget and appropriation ordinance
if then necessary, and shall have authority to issue licenses and permits
required by ordinance, and to execute and deliver contracts and to make
purchases as directed by Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.05 LAW DIRECTOR.
   Appointment and duties, see
Charter Art. V, § 3.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.06 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW OFFICER.
   For provisions concerning the Architectural Review Officer, see §
150.030 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)
§ 31.07 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The position of Finance Director/Tax Commissioner is hereby created.
(Prior Code, § 31.08) (Ord. 89-28, passed 6-3-1989)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.20 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICIALS.
   See
Charter Art. VI, § l.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
§ 31.21 CREATION AND ABOLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
   See
Charter Art. VI, § 2.
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.22 PERSONAL INTEREST.
   See
Charter Art. XIV, § 2.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
§ 31.23 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   See
Charter Art. XIV, § 3.
(Prior Code, § 31.23)
§ 31.24 TEMPORARY ABSENCE FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the continuity
of governmental functions when either the Clerk or Manager of the city is
temporarily absent from office. The intent of this section is to provide a
mechanism that will allow designated persons to perform the functions of the
Clerk or Manager in a manner that is consistent with the City Charter and which
clarifies the responsibility for actions taken when either the City Manager or
the Clerk is not available.
   (B)   Manager.
      (1)   The Manager, in accordance with
Charter Art. IV, § 2 may by letter filed with the Clerk, designate a qualified
person, subject to the approval of Council, to perform the duties of Manager
during his or her temporary absence from office. If the Manager does not
designate a person or designates a person or persons other than those approved
consistent with this section, then the Council may either approve the
alternative appointment or appoint a qualified person to perform the duties of
the Manager until the Manager returns or the disability ends.
      (2)   While it is not the intent of this section to, in any away, limit
the Charter authority of the City Manager to designate any qualified person,
Council hereby approves the appointment of the Chief of Police and the City Tax
Commissioner, if so designated by the Manager, during the Manager’s temporary
absence from office, subject to the following limitations and guidelines.
         (a)   Copies of the required letter of designation which is filed with
the Clerk shall be concurrently delivered to all Council members. A letter
shall be deemed delivered when posted in the Clerk’s and each Council member’s
mailbox in the Municipal Building. Additional telephonic notice is recommended
but not required. Such letter shall provide that the Chief of Police and the
Tax Commissioner are designated to perform the duties of the City Manager
during his or her temporary absence or disability and he or she shall perform
the duties in accordance with the guidelines and limitations set forth in this
section. If the letter of designation authorizes any deviation from this
section, then Council must consider by separate action whether it so approves.
         (b)   The letter of designation shall limit authority of designees to
perform only such duties as are essential and which duties or actions cannot be
reasonably deferred until the return of the Manager. The Tax Commissioner shall
be designated as the responsible person for signing checks and approving
purchase orders during the Manager’s absence. All other duties and decisions of
the City Manager shall be performed by the Chief of Police.
         (c)   The letter of designation shall withhold authority of the Tax
Commissioner to approve expenditures or sign checks unless such action has been
specifically authorized in said letter or is deemed essential for the
preservation of the health, safety and welfare of the community and its
citizens or employees of the city by both the Tax Commissioner and the Chief of
Police.
         (d)   The designees shall maintain a file or a log of all actions
taken in the performance of the duties of the City Manager as well as those
matters specifically deferred until the return of the Manager. The designees
may consult with other public officials and advise Council members or request
Council action as the designees deem appropriate.
      (3)   The Manager shall review all actions taken on his or her behalf.
The Manager is hereby authorized to ratify and affirm any action of any public
official if it is determined that it was the City Manager’s responsibility or
duty. Such ratification and affirmation shall be in writing and shall validate
the action as if the City Manager had acted in the first instance. Any such
ratification and affirmation shall be reported to Council without undue delay.
However, it is not the intent of this section to require that the City Manager
ratify or affirm any specific action taken by any public official if the action
is deemed inappropriate or illegal.
   (C)   Clerk.
      (1)   Council recognizes that the Charter makes no specific provisions
for the transfer of the duties of the Clerk when the Clerk is temporarily
absent from office or disabled.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions and limitations set forth here, Council
hereby designates the Assistant to the Clerk to perform certain duties if the
Clerk is temporarily absent from office or is deemed disabled. The Clerk shall
be considered temporarily absent from office during such times as notification
is provided to the City Manager and/or the Mayor. Council may also designate
the Clerk as temporarily absent from office or disabled if it has received
reasonable information that permits Council to make that determination. In such
event, Council hereby designates the Assistant to the Clerk as the Acting Clerk
to perform such duties as are necessary to maintain continuity of the
performance of the duties required to be performed by the Clerk.
      (3)   Upon the return of office by the Clerk, the Clerk shall review all
actions taken on his or her behalf by the Acting Clerk. The Clerk is hereby
authorized to ratify and affirm any action of any public official if it is
determined that it was the Clerk’s responsibility or duty. Such ratification
and affirmation shall be in writing and shall validate the action as if the
Clerk had acted in the first instance. Any such ratification and affirmation
shall be reported to Council without undo delay. However, it is not the intent
of this action to require the Clerk to ratify or affirm any specific action
taken by any public official including the Acting Clerk, if the action is
deemed inappropriate or illegal.
(Prior Code, § 31.24) (Ord. 91-93, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 96-09, passed 2-26-
1996; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-2017)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION
Section
Police Protection
   
32.01   Police Department authorized
   
32.02   Duties and functions
   
32.03   Chief of Police
   
32.04   Lieutenants of police
   
32.05   Patrol officer
   
32.06   Police Clerk Dispatcher
   
32.07   Police Clerk
   
32.08   School guard
   
32.09   Auxiliary police unit established
Fire Protection
   
32.20   Fire protection
POLICE PROTECTION
§ 32.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZED.
   The Police Department is established in accordance with
Art. IX,§§ 1 and
2, of the City Charter and in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.02 DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Police Department shall provide police services within the
jurisdictional limits of the municipality, including the preservation of the
peace, the protection of persons and property and the enforcement of law. The
Department shall be under the direction of the Chief of Police, who shall
report to the Manager for administrative purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The position of the Chief of Police is in the unclassified service of the
city. The Chief shall be well qualified to do and perform the duties of
supervising the Police Department, preparing the rules and regulations of the
Department, securing the proper training of the patrol officers and carrying
out such other duties as are appropriate for the proper supervision of the
operation of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.04 LIEUTENANTS OF POLICE.
   There shall be positions of Lieutenants of police. Such Lieutenants shall be
well qualified to do and perform the duties of first line shift supervisors.
The positions of Lieutenants of police shall be in the classified service of
the city. Such Lieutenants shall perform such other duties and assume such
responsibilities as shall be designated or assigned by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.05 PATROL OFFICER.
   There shall be positions of patrol officers in the Police Department. Such
positions shall be created in the classified service of the city. Patrol
officers shall be well qualified to perform the duties of a patrol officer and
shall perform such other duties and assume such responsibilities as shall be
designated or assigned by his or her superiors.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.06 POLICE CLERK DISPATCHER.
   There is hereby created a position of Police Clerk Dispatcher which shall be
in the classified service of the city. The Police Clerk Dispatcher shall be
well qualified to do and perform the duties of this position and shall perform
such other duties and assume such responsibilities as shall be designated or
assigned by his or her superiors.
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.07 POLICE CLERK.
   There is hereby created in the unclassified service of the city the part-
time position of Police Clerk. The Police Clerk shall be well qualified to do
and perform the duties of a Police Clerk and shall perform such other duties
and assume such other responsibilities as shall be designated or assigned by
the Chief of Police or his or her superiors.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.08 SCHOOL GUARD.
   There is hereby created in the unclassified service of the city the position
of school guard. The school guard shall be well qualified to do and perform
such duties as assigned by the Chief of Police which provide for the safe
conduct of school children at roadway crossings. This shall be a part-time
position.
(Prior Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 32.09 AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   An auxiliary police unit is established within the Police Department
of the city. The City Manager shall be the executive head of the unit and shall
make all appointments of officers to and removals of officers from the unit.
The Manager or designee shall prescribe rules and regulations for the
organization, training, administration, control and conduct of the unit and the
members thereof. The members of the unit shall be volunteers and shall not be
entitled to receive compensation from the city when performing auxiliary
services or duties for the city in an appointed capacity except that officers
may be reimbursed for expenses as may be specifically prescribed by the
Manager, and, in such event, the Manager shall also prescribe the amount of
reimbursement for such expenses. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when members of
the unit are performing auxiliary services for private entities in an appointed
capacity, such officers may be compensated by those private entities so long as
the Manager or designee has provided approval prior to the provision of
services.
   (B)   Officers of the auxiliary police unit shall and are hereby vested with
all police powers including the power to pursue, arrest and detain persons
violating the law of the state and ordinances of the city in accordance with
such written policies and regulations as may be approved by the City Manager
and Chief of Police.
   (C)   The City Manager shall state the period for which the officer or
officers are to serve and the power vested in the officers. However, the
Manager shall have the authority to re-deputize any officer upon expiration of
the term.
(Prior Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990; Ord. 92-14, passed 4-6-
1992; Ord. 19-05, passed 11-25-2019)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 32.20 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Authority to organize Fire Department, see
Charter Art. IX, § 3.
   (B)   Contracts with other municipalities, see
Charter Art. IX, § 3.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 90-85, passed 12-17-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see
Ch. 91
CHAPTER 33: CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Parks and Recreation Board
   
33.01   Land set aside for public playground, swimming pool and park
   
33.02   Parks and Recreation Board established
   
33.03   Terms of Board
   
33.04   Recommendations of Board
   
33.05   Recreation and park employees; scope of authority
   
33.06   Concession privileges; changes and fees
Planning Commission
   
33.20   Appointment
   
33.21   Powers and duties
   
33.22   Action of Council necessary
   
33.23   Appeals
Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council
   
33.35   Establishment and appointment
   
33.36   Reinvestment Area No. 1
   
33.37   Tax exemptions
Senior Commission
   
33.50   Establishment and composition
   
33.51   Authority
   
33.52   Chair; agenda; meetings
Charter reference:
   Planning Commission, see
Charter Art. VII
Cross-reference:
   City parks, see
Ch. 94
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 33.01 LAND SET ASIDE FOR PUBLIC PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING POOL AND PARK.
   The land conveyed to the city by the Board of Education of the Madeira City
School District by deed recorded in Deed Book 2705, page 120, of the records of
Hamilton County, Ohio, and the land acquired by the city, known as the McDonald
Commons, and the land acquired by the city known as the Nellie V. Hosbrook Bird
Sanctuary, are hereby designated and set apart for use as a public playground,
playfield, swimming pool and for other public park and recreational purposes.
Any additional land acquired by the city for recreational purposes shall be
subject to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 1552, passed 10-5-1981; Ord. 05-02, passed 1-24-
2005)
Cross-reference:
   City parks, see
Ch. 94
§ 33.02 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Parks and Recreation Board to be known as the
Parks and Recreation Board of the city. Said Board shall consist of not more
than 15 voting members and one non-voting member. All of the members shall be
appointed by the City Council. One of those appointments shall be the
Chairperson of the City Council’s Parks and Recreation Committee, who shall be
the only member of Council on the Board. The Recreation Director or the City
Manager shall be an ex officio non-voting member of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 1552, passed 10-5-1981; Ord. 89-50, passed 9-5-
1989; Ord. 90-68, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 91-85, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 11-23,
passed 10-10-2011)
§ 33.03 TERMS OF BOARD.
   (A)   All members of the Parks and Recreation Board shall hereafter be
appointed for a term of two years. Council shall appoint or reappoint members
upon expiration of the present terms of office. If a member resigns or a
membership on the Board becomes vacant for any reason, Council shall appoint a
member for the unexpired balance of the term. The Parks and Recreation Board
shall elect a Chairperson annually.
   (B)   All voting members of the Board shall serve without pay. Each vacancy
on the Board, occurring otherwise than by expiration of a term, shall be for
the unexpired portion of the term and shall be filled in the same manner as
though it had been created by expiration of a term. Any member missing three
consecutive meetings may be removed from the Board by the Chairperson’s
recommendation to Council. Council, at the next regular meeting after receipt
of the Chairperson’s recommendation, may veto such recommendation or it shall
become final.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 1552, passed 10-5-1981; Ord. 89-50, passed 9-5-
1989; Ord. 90-68, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 91-85, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 05-02,
passed 1-24-2005)
§ 33.04 RECOMMENDATIONS OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall, from time to time, prepare and
submit plans, programs and recommendations relative to public recreation and
public parks, and any and all other recreational facilities of the city,
whether on or in public grounds or buildings owned or hereafter acquired by the
city or on or in privately owned lands or buildings, the right to the use of
which for public recreational purposes is granted by the owners thereof, of
public play and recreational activities at such facilities and on such grounds
and in such buildings under the control of the Board of Education as such Board
of Education may permit to be used for such activities.
   (B)   The Board shall in addition, make studies upon its own initiative or
at the request of City Council and/or at the request of the Council Parks and
Recreation Committee. All recommendations and reports are to be directed to the
City Council Parks and Recreation Committee. All reports and recommendations
must then be submitted to the City Council within 90 days of their receipt by
the Parks and Recreation Committee of Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 1552, passed 10-5-1981)
§ 33.05 RECREATION AND PARK EMPLOYEES; SCOPE OF AUTHORITY.
   All public recreational and park employees of the city shall be hired by the
City Manager and shall be under his or her control as fully as the employees of
any other department of the city. The Board shall have only such functions as
are described in this subchapter and shall have no powers not granted or
provided by the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 1552, passed 10-5-1981)
§ 33.06 CONCESSION PRIVILEGES; CHANGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall have the power and authority to grant
concession privileges at the various grounds and other places of public
recreation where games, entertainment and recreational affairs are held, and to
charge fees for the use of an attendant to assist with city-owned recreational
equipment and cleaning the park shelters and/or concession stands.
   (B)   In accordance with division (A) above, the following rules and
regulations shall be established for reserving the park shelters at McDonald
Commons and Sellman Park and the concession stand at Sellman Park.
      (1)   Reservations shall be accepted as of January 1 for the current
calendar year.
      (2)   Shelter houses and concession stand may be reserved beginning the
first weekend in May through the last weekend in October.
      (3)   Reservations are on a first come/first serve basis. However, no
reservation is approved until a written application and appropriate fees have
been received.
      (4)   Cancellations must be made at least two weeks prior to the date the
shelter or concession stand is to be used in order to receive a refund of the
fee paid.
   (C)   Shelter fees are as follows if the applicant chooses to pay a fee for
the use of city-owned recreational equipment which includes the provision of an
attendant on duty to assist with the signing out of this equipment and
cleaning:
      (1)   Reservation of four to six hours: $35.
      (2)   Reservation of six to eight hours: $60.
      (3)   Reservation of eight or more hours: $80.
      (4)   The city reserves the right to recover the cost for damages to the
shelter and/or park properties.
   (D)   Concession stand attendant fees are as follows.
      (1)   A mandatory deposit of $50 is required for reservation of the
Sellman Park concession stand. This deposit covers the provision of a
concession stand attendant that must be on duty to assist with the usage of the
equipment and to ensure the proper clean-up procedures are followed once the
usage time of the concession stand has expired. Upon evaluation and inspection
of the concession stand area following the applicant’s requested reservation,
and deeming the area satisfactory for future usage, one-half of the deposit
amount ($25) will be refunded.
      (2)   It is required by the city that every applicant carry his or her
own liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000, which will cover any
property damage arising out of the use of the facility. The applicant will
provide proof of insurance and provide a certificate which names the city as an
additional insured. This provision may be waived at the discretion of the City
Manager.
   (E)   Proof of residency or employment shall be required at the time
reservation applications are submitted.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 1552, passed 10-5-1981; Ord. 91-18, passed 2-20-
1991; Ord. 04-17, passed 4-26-2004; Ord. 05-02, passed 1-24-2005)
Cross-reference:
   City parks, see
Ch. 94
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.20 APPOINTMENT.
   See
Charter Art. VII, § l.
(Prior Code, § 33.20)
§ 33.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   See
Charter Art. VII, § 2.
(Prior Code, § 33.21)
§ 33.22 ACTION OF COUNCIL NECESSARY.
   See
Charter Art. VII, § 3.
(Prior Code, § 33.22)
§ 33.23 APPEALS.
   See
Charter Art. VII, § 4.
(Prior Code, § 33.23)
COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA HOUSING COUNCIL
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Community Reinvestment Area Housing
Council for Community Reinvestment Area No. 1.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint two members, the City Council shall appoint
two members and the Planning Commission shall appoint one member. The majority
of the foregoing members shall appoint two additional members who shall be
residents within the city. Their term shall be for three years. An unexpired
term resulting from a vacancy in the Housing Council shall be filled in the
same manner as the initial appointment was made. The Housing Council shall make
an annual inspection of any properties in the area for which an exemption has
been granted under R.C. § 3735.67.
   (C)   City Council shall appoint the Housing Officer for the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.35) (Res. 21-91, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 33.36 REINVESTMENT AREA NO. 1.
   (A)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 1 is established as described in
Exhibit A attached to Resolution 21-91, passed October 7, 1991 and incorporated
by reference.
   (B)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 1 is one in which housing facilities
or structures of historical significance are located and new housing and repair
of existing facilities or structures are discouraged.
(Prior Code, § 33.36) (Res. 21-91, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 33.37 TAX EXEMPTIONS.
   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 1, tax exemptions for improvements to
real property as described in R.C. § 3735.67 may be granted. For the
construction of improvements to every existing dwelling, or commercial or
industrial structure located in the area, Council has determined that an
exemption may be granted for up to ten years.
(Prior Code, § 33.37) (Res. 21-91, passed 10-7-1991)
SENIOR COMMISSION
§ 33.50 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   The Senior Commission of the city is hereby established for the purposes and
in accordance with the guidelines set forth herein. The Commission shall be
comprised of 11 members serving for two-year terms, however six of the original
appointees shall serve for three years during the initial term. Thereafter, all
terms will be for two years. The appointment for initial terms or for the
balance of unexpired terms shall be by a majority of Council members present at
a Council meeting. While consideration shall be given to including occupational
therapists, physical therapists, social workers, individuals trained in
geriatrics and possibly a school representative on the Commission, appointees
shall be at the sole discretion of the decision of City Council. All such
appointees shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.50) (Res. 02-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 33.51 AUTHORITY.
   The Senior Commission shall be an advisory body to City Council and, as
such, it shall have no budget or policy-making authority. The Senior Commission
may also, from time to time, be consulted with and provide advice to both the
Planning Commission, the Parks and Recreation Board and the general public on
matters related to senior issues. The Commission will be involved in
investigation, communication, advising and education of issues related to
seniors in the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.51) (Res. 02-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 33.52 CHAIR; AGENDA; MEETINGS.
   The members of the Senior Commission shall elect from its members a Chair of
the Senior Commission whose duty shall be to chair the meetings of the Senior
Commission. The Senior Commission shall initiate its own agenda consistent with
identifying problems and recommending solutions to senior related matters. In
addition, it shall address, investigate and provide recommendations to matters
referred to it by City Council from time to time. The Senior Commission shall
be a public body and hold all meeting in accordance with the Ohio Sunshine
Laws. The Senior Commission shall, as it deems necessary, develop its own by-
laws and other guidelines for establishing the agenda for its meetings as well
as other rules for conducting its meetings as it determines to be necessary.
The City Council reserves unto itself, as it does with all committees,
commissions and boards, to reconstitute or otherwise provide goals and
objectives for the Senior Commission as it may determine to be necessary for
the good of the community from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 33.52) (Res. 02-08, passed 5-27-2008)
CHAPTER 34: CIVIL SERVICE
Section
   
34.01   Civil service rules and regulations adopted by reference
Charter reference:
   Civil service, see
Charter Art. VIII
§ 34.01 CIVIL SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Civil Service Commission will be governed by the civil service
rules and regulations attached to Ordinance 88-31, passed June 6, 1988, and
amended by Ordinance 22-06, passed May 23, 2022 which are adopted by reference
and incorporated as a part of this code as if fully set out herein. A copy of
the civil service rules and regulations are on file with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 22-06, passed 5-23-2022)
CHAPTER 35: MAYOR’S COURT
Section
   
35.01   Witness fees
   
35.02   “Half-day’s attendance” defined
   
35.03   Contempt of court
   
35.04   Electronically monitored house arrest
   
35.05   Police and/or Mayor’s Court Computer Fund
§ 35.01 WITNESS FEES.
   Each witness in a criminal case shall receive the following fees:
   (A)   Six dollars for each half day’s attendance at Mayor’s Court, to be
taxed in the bill of costs; and
   (B)   Each witness shall also receive $0.10 for each mile necessarily
traveled to and from his or her place of residence to the place of giving
testimony, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 1590, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 35.02 “HALF-DAY’S ATTENDANCE” DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, a HALF-DAY’S ATTENDANCE means a day on which a
witness is required or requested to be present at a proceeding, regardless of
whether or not he or she actually testifies.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 1590, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 35.03 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   Any person appearing before the Mayor’s Court who acts unruly or disobeys a
direct order of the court shall be guilty of contempt of court and may be fined
for such contempt. The contempt will be treated as a fourth degree misdemeanor
and punished according to §
130.99.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 1634, passed 5-16-1983) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 35.04 ELECTRONICALLY MONITORED HOUSE ARREST.
   (A)   Any or all of the term of imprisonment authorized under the ordinances
of the city may be served by means of electronically monitored house arrest, in
the sole discretion of the Mayor. In such case, the Mayor shall determine the
number of days of actual imprisonment, the number of days of electronically
monitored house arrest, and whether any of the days of actual imprisonment
shall be suspended on the condition of successful completion of the
incarceration by electronically monitored house arrest. The sum of the days of
actual imprisonment plus the days of electronically monitored house arrest
shall not exceed the stated maximum number of days of imprisonment for that
particular offense.
   (B)   No individual may serve a term of imprisonment by electronically
monitored house arrest unless he or she first executes an appropriate agreement
made available to all such defendants, whereby the defendant agrees to pay the
cost of the system (or, in the sole discretion of the Mayor, such portion of
the cost as he or she can afford to pay) and agrees to abide by all of the
rules and regulations of the electronically monitored house arrest procedure.
The agreement shall provide that no credit for suspended days of actual
incarceration shall be granted unless the defendant successfully completes all
of the days of the electronically monitored house arrest.
   (C)   Any person, knowing that he or she is under the restrictions of
electronically monitored house arrest, shall not purposely break or attempt to
break such detention, or purposely violate any of the requirements of the
detention. Whoever violates this section shall be deemed to have violated the
terms of the suspended sentence, both fines and incarceration, and shall be
required to appear in court and show cause why the full suspended sentence
should not be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 90-82, passed 2-20-1991)
§ 35.05 POLICE AND/OR MAYOR’S COURT COMPUTER FUND.
   (A)   A special revenue fund, Police and/or Mayor’s Court Computer Fund is
hereby established to enable the city to collect $5 from every ticket issued in
conjunction with the Mayor’s Court.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make expenditures from the
Fund for any lawful purpose in furtherance of purchasing, operating and
maintaining the Mayor’s Court and/or Police Department computer system.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 04-20, passed 6-28-2004)
CHAPTER 36: CIVIL ACTIONS AGAINST THE MUNICIPALITY
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Nonliability of municipality; exceptions
   
36.03   Defenses and immunities
   
36.04   Limitation of actions
   
36.05   Satisfaction of judgments
   
36.06   Provision of employees’ defense; consent judgments
   
36.07   Liability insurance
   
36.08   Certain actions unaffected
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY CALL. A call to duty including but not limited to communications
from citizens, police dispatches, and personal observations by peace officers
of inherently dangerous situations that demand an immediate response on the
part of a peace officer.
   EMPLOYEE. An officer, agent, employee, or servant, whether or not
compensated or full-time or part-time, who is authorized to act and is acting
within the scope of his or her employment for a political subdivision. The term
does not include an independent contractor and does not include any individual
engaged by a school district pursuant to R.C. § 3319.301. The term includes any
elected or appointed official of a political subdivision. The term also
includes a person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a criminal
offense and who has been sentenced to perform community service work in a
political subdivision whether pursuant to R.C. § 2951.02 or otherwise, and a
child who is found to be a delinquent child and who is ordered by a juvenile
court pursuant to R.C. § 2152.19 or 2152.20 to perform community service or
community work in a political subdivision.
   GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
      (1)   A function of a political subdivision that is specified in division
(2) of this definition or that satisfies any of the following:
         (a)   A function that is imposed upon the state as an obligation of
sovereignty and that is performed by a political subdivision voluntarily or
pursuant to legislative requirement;
         (b)   A function that is for the common good of all citizens of the
state; or
         (c)   A function that promotes or preserves the public peace, health,
safety, or welfare, that involves activities that are not engaged in or not
customarily engaged in by nongovernmental persons, and that is not specified in
this section as a proprietary function.
      (2)   The term includes but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   The provision or nonprovision of police, fire, emergency
medical, ambulance, and rescue services or protection;
         (b)   The power to preserve the peace; to prevent and suppress riots,
disturbances, and disorderly assemblages; to prevent, mitigate, and clean up
releases of oil and hazardous and extremely hazardous substances as defined in
R.C. § 3750.01; and to protect persons and property;
         (c)   The provision of a system of public education;
         (d)   The provision of a free public library system;
         (e)   The regulation of the use of, and the maintenance and repair of,
roads, highways, streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, bridges, aqueducts,
viaducts, and public grounds;
         (f)   Judicial, quasi-judicial, prosecutorial, legislative, and quasi-
legislative functions;
         (g)   The construction, reconstruction, repair, renovation,
maintenance, and operation of buildings that are used in connection with the
performance of a governmental function, including but not limited to office
buildings and courthouses;
         (h)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
maintenance, and operation of jails, places of juvenile detention, workhouses,
or any other detention facility, as defined in R.C. § 2921.01;
         (i)   The enforcement or nonperformance of any law;
         (j)   The regulation of traffic, and the erection or non-erection of
traffic signs, signals, or control devices;
         (k)   The collection and disposal of solid wastes, as defined in R.C.
§ 3734.01 including, but not limited to, the operation of solid waste disposal
facilities as “facilities” is defined in that section, and the collection and
management of hazardous waste generated by households. As used in this
subsection, HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED BY HOUSEHOLDS means solid waste
originally generated by individual households that is listed specifically as
hazardous waste in or exhibits one or more characteristics of hazardous waste
as defined by rules adopted under R.C. § 3734.12, but that is excluded from
regulation as a hazardous waste by those rules;
         (l)   The provision or nonprovision, planning or design, construction,
or reconstruction of a public improvement, including but not limited to a sewer
system;
         (m)   The operation of a job and family services department or agency,
including but not limited to the provision of assistance to aged and infirm
persons and to persons who are indigent;
         (n)   The operation of a health board, department, or agency,
including but not limited to any statutorily required or permissive program for
the provision of immunizations or other inoculations to all or some members of
the public; provided that a governmental function does not include the supply,
manufacture, distribution, or development of any drug or vaccine employed in
any such immunization or inoculation program by any supplier, manufacturer,
distributor, or developer of the drug or vaccine;
         (o)   The operation of mental health facilities, developmental
disabilities facilities, alcohol treatment and control centers, and children’s
homes or agencies;
         (p)   The provision or nonprovision of inspection services of all
types, including but not limited to inspections in connection with building,
zoning, sanitation, fire, plumbing, and electrical codes, and the taking of
actions in connection with those types of codes, including but not limited to
the approval of plans for the construction of buildings or structures and the
issuance or revocation of building permits or stop work orders in connection
with buildings or structures;
         (q)   Urban renewal projects and the elimination of slum conditions,
including the performance of any activity that a County Land Reutilization
Corporation is authorized to perform under R.C. Chapter 1724 or R.C. Chapter
5722;
         (r)   Flood control measures;
         (s)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, operation,
care, repair, and maintenance of a township cemetery;
         (t)   The issuance of revenue obligations under R.C. § 140.06;
         (u)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
maintenance, and operation of any school athletic facility, school auditorium,
or gymnasium or any recreation area or facility, including but not limited to
any of the following:
            1.   A park, playground, or playfield;
            2.   An indoor recreational facility;
            3.   A zoo or zoological park;
            4.   A bath, swimming pool, pond, water park, wading pool, wave
pool, water slide or other type of aquatic facility;
            5.   A golf course;
            6.   A bicycle motocross facility or other type of recreational
area or facility in which bicycling, skating, skate boarding, or scooter riding
is engaged;
            7.   A rope course or climbing walls; and
            8.   An all-purpose vehicle facility in which all-purpose vehicles,
as defined in R.C. § 4519.01, are contained, maintained, or operated for
recreational activities;
         (v)   The provision of public defender services by a county or joint
county public defender’s office pursuant to R.C. Chapter 120;
         (w)   1.   At any time before regulations prescribed pursuant to 49
U.S.C. § 20153 become effective, the designation, establishment, design,
construction, implementation, operation, repair, or maintenance of a public
road rail crossing in a zone within a municipal corporation in which, by
ordinance, the legislative authority of the municipal corporation regulates the
sounding of locomotive horns, whistles, or bells;
            2.   On and after the effective date of regulations prescribed
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 20153, the designation, establishment, design,
construction, implementation, operation, repair, or maintenance of a public
road rail crossing in such a zone or of a supplementary safety measure, as
defined in 49 U.S.C. § 20153, at or for a public road rail crossing, if and to
the extent that the public road rail crossing is excepted, pursuant to
subsection (c) of that section, from the requirement of the regulations
prescribed under subsection (b) of that section; and
         (x)   A function that the General Assembly mandates a political
subdivision to perform.
   LAW. Any provision of the Constitution, statutes, or rules of the United
States or of this state, provisions of charters, ordinances, resolutions, and
rules of political subdivisions, and written policies adopted by boards of
education. When used in connection with the “common law”, this definition does
not apply.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION or SUBDIVISION. A municipal corporation, township,
county, school district, or other body corporate and politic responsible for
governmental activities in a geographic area smaller than that of the state.
The term includes but is not limited to a county hospital commission appointed
under R.C. § 339.14, board of hospital commissioners appointed for a municipal
hospital under R.C. § 749.04, board of hospital trustees appointed for a
municipal hospital under R.C. § 749.22, regional planning commission created
pursuant to R.C. § 713.21, county planning commission created pursuant to R.C.
§ 713.22, joint planning council created pursuant to R.C. § 713.231, interstate
regional planning commission created pursuant to R.C. § 713.30, port authority
created pursuant to R.C. § 4582.02 or 4582.26 or in existence on December 16,
1964, regional council established by political subdivisions pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 167, emergency planning district and joint emergency planning district
designated under R.C. § 3750.03, joint emergency medical services district
created pursuant to R.C. § 307.052, a fire and ambulance district created
pursuant to R.C. § 505.375, joint interstate emergency planning district
established by an agreement entered into under that section, and a county solid
waste management district and joint solid waste management district established
under R.C. § 343.01 or 343.012, a community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, county land reutilization corporation organized under R.C.
Chapter 1724, the county or counties served by a community-based correctional
facility and program or district community-based correction facility and
program established and operated under R.C. §§ 2301.51 through 2301.58, a
community-based correctional facility and program or district community-based
correctional facility and program that is so established and operated, and the
facility governing board of a community-based correctional facility and program
or district community-based correctional facility and program that is so
established and operated.
   PROPRIETARY FUNCTION.
      (1)   A function of a political subdivision that is specified in division
(2) of this definition or that satisfies both of the following:
         (a)   The function is not one described in divisions (1)(a) or (1)(b)
of the definition of “governmental function” contained in this section, and is
not one specified in division (2) of the definition of “governmental function”
contained in this section;
         (b)   The function is one that promotes or preserves the public peace,
health, safety, or welfare and that involves activities that are customarily
engaged in by nongovernmental persons.
      (2)   The term includes but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   The operation of a hospital by one or more political
subdivisions;
         (b)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
maintenance, and operation of a public cemetery other than a township cemetery;
         (c)   The establishment, maintenance, and operation of a utility,
including but not limited to a light, gas, power, or heat plant, a railroad, a
busline or other transit company, an airport, and a municipal water supply
system;
         (d)   The maintenance, destruction, operation, and upkeep of a sewer
system; and
         (e)   The operation and control of a public stadium, auditorium, civic
or social center, exhibition hall, arts and crafts center, band or orchestra,
or off-street parking facility.
   PUBLIC ROADS. Means public roads, highways, streets, avenues, alleys, and
bridges within a political subdivision. The term does not include berms,
shoulders, rights-of-way, or traffic control devices unless the traffic control
devices are mandated by the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   STATE. The State of Ohio, including but not limited to the General Assembly,
the Supreme Court, the offices of all elected state officers, and all
departments, boards, offices, commissions, agencies, colleges, and
universities, institutions, and other instrumentalities of the State of Ohio.
The term does not include political subdivisions.
(R.C. § 2744.01) (Prior Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 NONLIABILITY OF MUNICIPALITY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Classifications of functions; nonliability; jurisdiction of the
courts.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, the functions of political
subdivisions are classified as governmental functions and proprietary
functions. Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a political
subdivision is not liable in damages in a civil action for injury, death, or
loss to person or property allegedly caused by any act or omission of the
political subdivision or an employee of the political subdivision in connection
with a governmental or proprietary function.
      (2)   The defenses and immunities conferred under this chapter and R.C.
Chapter 2744 apply in connection with all governmental and proprietary
functions performed by the political subdivision and its employees, whether
performed on behalf of the political subdivision or on behalf of another
political subdivision.
      (3)   Subject to statutory limitations upon their monetary jurisdiction,
the Courts of Common Pleas, the Municipal Courts, and the County Courts have
jurisdiction to hear and determine civil actions governed by or brought
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. Subject to §
36.03 and R.C. §§ 2744.03 and 2744.05, a political subdivision is liable in
damages in a civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property
allegedly caused by an act or omission of the political subdivision or of any
of its employees in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, political
subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused
by the negligent operation of any motor vehicle by their employees when the
employees are engaged within the scope of their employment and authority. The
following are full defenses to that liability:
         (a)   A member of a municipal police department or any other police
agency was operating a motor vehicle while responding to an emergency call and
the operation of the vehicle did not constitute willful or wanton misconduct;
         (b)   A member of a municipal fire department or any other
firefighting agency was operating a motor vehicle while engaged in duty at a
fire, proceeding toward a place where a fire is in progress or is believed to
be in progress, or answering any other emergency alarm and the operation of the
vehicle did not constitute willful or wanton misconduct;
         (c)   A member of an emergency medical service owned or operated by a
political subdivision was operating a motor vehicle while responding to or
completing a call for emergency medical care or treatment, the member was
holding a valid commercial driver’s license issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter
4506 or a driver’s license issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4507, the operation
of the vehicle did not constitute willful or wanton misconduct, and the
operation complies with the precautions of R.C. § 4511.03.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 3314.07 and 3746.24,
political subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or
property caused by the negligent performance of acts by their employees with
respect to proprietary functions of the political subdivisions.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3746.24, political
subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused
by their negligent failure to keep public roads in repair and other negligent
failure to remove obstructions from public roads, except that it is a full
defense to that liability, when a bridge within a municipality is involved,
that the municipality does not have the responsibility for maintaining or
inspecting the bridge.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3746.24, political
subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or property that
is caused by the negligence of their employees and that occurs within or on the
grounds of, and is due to physical defects within or on the grounds of,
buildings that are used in connection with the performance of a governmental
function, including but not limited to office buildings and courthouses, but
not including jails, places of juvenile detention, workhouses, or any other
detention facility, as defined in R.C. § 2921.01.
      (5)   In addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(4) of this section, a political subdivision is liable for injury,
death, or loss to person or property when civil liability is expressly imposed
upon the political subdivision by a section of the Ohio Revised Code, including
but not limited to R.C. §§ 2743.02 and 5591.37. Civil liability shall not be
construed to exist under another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code
merely because that section imposes a responsibility or mandatory duty upon a
political subdivision, because that section provides for a criminal penalty,
because of a general authorization in that section that a political subdivision
may sue and be sued, or because that section uses the term “shall” in a
provision pertaining to a political subdivision.
   (C)   An order that denies a political subdivision or an employee of a
political subdivision the benefit of an alleged immunity from liability as
provided in this chapter or any other provision of the law is a final order.
(R.C. § 2744.02) (Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.03 DEFENSES AND IMMUNITIES.
   (A)   In a civil action brought against a political subdivision or an
employee of a political subdivision to recover damages for injury, death, or
loss to person or property allegedly caused by any act or omission in
connection with a governmental or proprietary function, the following defenses
or immunities may be asserted to establish nonliability:
      (1)   The political subdivision is immune from liability if the employee
involved was engaged in the performance of a judicial, quasi-judicial,
prosecutorial, legislative, or quasi-legislative function.
      (2)   The political subdivision is immune from liability if the conduct
of the employee involved, other than negligent conduct, that gave rise to the
claim of liability was required by law or authorized by law, or if the conduct
of the employee involved that gave rise to the claim of liability was necessary
or essential to the exercise of powers of the political subdivision or
employee.
      (3)   The political subdivision is immune from liability if the action or
failure to act by the employee involved that gave rise to the claim of
liability was within the discretion of the employee with respect to policy
making, planning, or enforcement powers by virtue of the duties and
responsibilities of the office or position of the employee.
      (4)   The political subdivision is immune from liability if the action or
failure to act by the political subdivision or employee involved that gave rise
to the claim of liability, resulted in injury or death to a person who had been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a criminal offense and who, at the time of
the injury or death, was serving any portion of his or her sentence by
performing community service work for or in the political subdivision whether
pursuant to R.C. § 2951.02 or otherwise, or resulted in injury or death to a
child who was found to be a delinquent child and who, at the time of the injury
or death, was performing community service or community work for or in a
political subdivision in accordance with the order of a juvenile court entered
pursuant to R.C. § 2152.19 or 2152.20, and if, at the time of that person’s or
child’s injury or death, the person or child was covered for purposes of R.C.
Chapter 4123 in connection with the community service or community work for or
in the political subdivision.
      (5)   The political subdivision is immune from liability if the injury,
death, or loss to person or property resulted from the exercise of judgment or
discretion in determining whether to acquire, or how to use, equipment,
supplies, materials, personnel, facilities, and other resources, unless the
judgment or discretion was exercised with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or
in a wanton or reckless manner.
      (6)   In addition to any immunity or defense referred to in division (A)
(7) of this section and in circumstances not covered by that division or R.C.
§§ 3314.07 and 3746.24, the employee is immune from liability unless one of the
following applies:
         (a)   His or her acts or omissions were manifestly outside the scope
of his or her employment or official responsibilities;
         (b)   His or her acts or omissions were with malicious purpose, in bad
faith, or in a wanton or reckless manner;
         (c)   Civil liability is expressly imposed upon the employee by a
section of the Ohio Revised Code. Civil liability shall not be construed to
exist under another section of the Ohio Revised Code merely because that
section imposes a responsibility or mandatory duty upon an employee, because
that section provides for a criminal penalty, because of a general
authorization in that section that an employee may sue and be sued, or because
the section uses the term “shall” in a provision pertaining to an employee.
      (7)   The political subdivision, and an employee who is the Chief Legal
Officer of a political subdivision, an assistant of any such person, or a judge
of a court of this state, is entitled to any defense or immunity available at
common law or established by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Any immunity or defense conferred upon, or referred to in connection
with, an employee by division (A)(6) or (A)(7) of this section does not affect
or limit any liability of a political subdivision for an act or omission of the
employee as provided in §
36.02 above.
(R.C. § 2744.03) (Prior Code, § 36.03)
§ 36.04 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   (A)   An action against a political subdivision to recover damages for
injury, death, or loss to person or property allegedly caused by any act or
omission in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, whether
brought as an original action, cross-claim, counterclaim, third-party claim, or
claim for subrogation, shall be brought within two years after the cause of
action accrues, or within any applicable shorter period of time for bringing
the action provided by the Ohio Revised Code. The period of limitation
contained in this division shall be tolled pursuant to R.C. § 2305.16. This
section applies to actions brought against political subdivisions by all
persons, governmental entities, and the state.
   (B)   In the complaint filed in a civil action against a political
subdivision or an employee of a political subdivision to recover damages for
injury, death, or loss to person or property allegedly caused by an act or
omission in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, whether
filed in an original action, cross-claim, counterclaim, third-party claim, or
claim for subrogation, the complainant shall include a demand for a judgment
for the damages that the judge in a nonjury trial or the jury in a jury trial
finds that the complainant is entitled to be awarded, but shall not specify in
that demand any monetary amount for damages sought.
(R.C. § 2744.04) (Prior Code, § 36.04)
§ 36.05 SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Real or personal property, and moneys, accounts, deposits, or
investments of a political subdivision are not subject to execution, judicial
sale, garnishment, or attachment to satisfy a judgment rendered against a
political subdivision in a civil action to recover damages for injury, death,
or loss to person or property caused by an act or omission of the political
subdivision or any of its employees in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function. Those judgments shall be paid from funds of the political
subdivisions that have been appropriated for that purpose, but, if sufficient
funds are not currently appropriated for the payment of judgments, the fiscal
officer of a political subdivision shall certify the amount of any unpaid
judgments to the taxing authority of the political subdivision for inclusion in
the next succeeding budget and annual appropriation measure and payment in the
next succeeding fiscal year as provided by R.C. § 5705.08, unless any judgment
of that nature is to be paid from the proceeds of bonds issued pursuant to R.C.
§ 133.14 or pursuant to annual installments authorized by divisions (B) or (C)
of this section.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   As used in this section, THE ACTUAL LOSS OF THE PERSON WHO
IS AWARDED THE DAMAGES includes all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries, or other compensation lost by the person
injured as a result of the injury, as of the date of judgment;
            2.   All expenditures of the person injured or of another person on
behalf of the person injured for medical care or treatment, for rehabilitation
services, or for other care, treatment, services, products, or accommodations
that were necessary because of the injury;
            3.   All expenditures of a person whose property was injured or
destroyed or of another person on behalf of the person whose property was
injured or destroyed in order to repair or replace the property that was
injured or destroyed;
            4.   All expenditures of the person injured or whose property was
injured or destroyed or of another person on behalf of the person injured whose
property was injured or destroyed in relation to the actual preparation or
presentation of the claim involved;
            5.   Any other expenditure of the person injured or whose property
was injured or destroyed or of another person on behalf of the person injured
or of the person whose property was injured or destroyed that the court
determines represent an actual loss experienced because of the personal or
property injury or property loss.
         (b)   As used in this section, THE ACTUAL LOSS OF THE PERSON WHO IS
AWARDED THE DAMAGES does not include any of the following:
            1.   Wages, salaries, or other compensation lost by the person
injured as a result of the injury that are future expected earnings of that
person;
            2.   Expenditures to be incurred in the future, as determined by
the court, by the person injured or by another person on behalf of the person
injured for medical care or treatment, for rehabilitation services, or for
other care, treatment, services, products, or accommodations that will be
necessary because of the injury;
            3.   Any fees paid or owed to an attorney for any services rendered
in relation to a personal or property injury or property loss;
            4.   Any damages awarded for pain and suffering, for the loss of
society, consortium, companionship, care, assistance, attention, protection,
advice, guidance, counsel, instruction, training, or education of the person
injured, for mental anguish, or for any other intangible loss.
      (2)   (a)   Except as specifically provided to the contrary in this
section, a court that renders a judgment against a political subdivision as
described in division (A) of this section and that is not in favor of the state
may authorize the political subdivision, upon the motion of the political
subdivision, to pay the judgment or a specified portion of the judgment in
annual installments over a period not to exceed ten years, subject to the
payment of interest at the rate specified in R.C. § 1343.03(A). A court shall
not authorize the payment in installments under this division of any portion of
a judgment or entire judgment that represents the actual loss of the person who
is awarded the damages.
         (b)   Additionally, a court shall not authorize the payment in
installments under this division of any portion of a judgment or entire
judgment that does not represent the actual loss of the person who is awarded
the damages unless the court, after balancing the interests of the political
subdivision and of the person in whose favor the judgment was rendered,
determines that installment payments would be appropriate under the
circumstances and would not be unjust to the person in whose favor the judgment
was rendered. If a court makes that determination, it shall fix the amount of
the installment payments in a manner that achieves for the person in whose
favor the judgment was rendered the same economic result over the period as
that person would have received if the judgment or portion of the judgment
subject to the installment payments had been paid in a lump sum payment.
   (C)   At the option of a political subdivision, a judgment as described in
division (A) of this section and that is rendered in favor of the state may be
paid in equal annual installments over a period not to exceed ten years,
without the payment of interest.
(R.C. § 2744.06) (Prior Code, § 36.05)
§ 36.06 PROVISION OF EMPLOYEES’ DEFENSE; CONSENT JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
a political subdivision shall provide for the defense of an employee, in any
state or federal court, in any civil action or proceeding which contains an
allegation for damages for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused
by an act or omission of the employee in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function. Amounts expended by a political subdivision in the
defense of its employees shall be from funds appropriated for this purpose or
from proceeds of insurance.
      (2)   A political subdivision does not have the duty to provide for the
defense of an employee under division (A)(1) of this section if any of the
following apply:
         (a)   The act or omission occurred while the employee was not acting
in good faith.
         (b)   The act or omission occurred while the employee was acting
manifestly outside the scope of the employee’s employment or official
responsibilities.
         (c)   The civil action or proceeding is commenced by or on behalf of a
political subdivision.
         (d)   The employee is an employee of a regional council of governments
established under R.C. Chapter 167 and both of the following apply:
            1.   The employee is not also an employee of a political
subdivision that is a member of the council.
            2.   The act or omission, if proven, would constitute a violation
of R.C. Chapter 102 or R.C. Chapter 2921.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
a political subdivision shall indemnify and hold harmless an employee in the
amount of any judgment, other than a judgment for punitive or exemplary
damages, that is obtained against the employee in a state or federal court or
as a result of a law of a foreign jurisdiction and that is for damages for
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by an act or omission in
connection with a governmental or proprietary function.
      (2)   A political subdivision is not required to indemnify and hold
harmless an employee under division (B)(1) of this section if any of the
following apply:
         (a)   At the time of the act or omission, the employee was not acting
in good faith.
         (b)   At the time of the act or omission, the employee was not acting
within the scope of the employee’s employment or official responsibilities.
         (c)   The employee is an employee of a regional council of governments
established under R.C. Chapter 167 and both of the following apply:
            1.   The employee is not also an employee of a political
subdivision that is a member of the council.
            2.   The act or omission constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter
102 or R.C. Chapter 2921.
   (C)   (1)   A political subdivision may enter into a consent judgment or
settlement and may secure releases from liability for itself or an employee,
with respect to any claim for injury, death, or loss to person or property
caused by an act or omission in connection with a governmental or proprietary
function.
      (2)   No action or appeal of any kind shall be brought by any person,
including any employee or a taxpayer, with respect to the decision of a
political subdivision pursuant to division (C)(1) of this section whether to
enter into a consent judgment or settlement or to secure releases, or
concerning the amount and circumstances of a consent judgment or settlement.
Amounts expended for any settlement shall be from funds appropriated for this
purpose.
   (D)   (1)   If a political subdivision refuses to provide an employee with a
defense in a civil action or proceeding as described in division (A) of this
section, upon the motion of the political subdivision, the court shall conduct
a hearing regarding the political subdivision’s duty to defend the employee in
that civil action. The political subdivision shall file the motion within 30
days of the close of discovery in the action. After the motion is filed, the
employee shall have not less than 30 days to respond to the motion.
      (2)   At the request of the political subdivision or the employee, the
court shall order the motion to be heard at an oral hearing. At the hearing on
the motion, the court shall consider all evidence and arguments submitted by
the parties. The court shall determine whether the political subdivision has
the duty to defend the employee under division (A) of this section. The
pleadings shall not be determinative of whether the employee acted in good
faith or was manifestly outside the scope of employment or official
responsibilities.
      (3)   If the court determines that the political subdivision has the duty
to defend the employee under division (A) of this section, the court shall
order the political subdivision to defend the employee in the action.
(R.C. § 2744.07) (Prior Code, § 36.06)
§ 36.07 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   A political subdivision may use public funds to secure insurance
with respect to its and its employees’ potential liability in damages in civil
actions for injury, death, or loss to persons or property allegedly caused by
an act or omission of the political subdivision or any of its employees in
connection with a governmental or proprietary function. The insurance may be at
the limits, for the circumstances, and subject to the terms and conditions,
that are determined by the political subdivision in its discretion. The
insurance may be for the period of time that is set forth in specifications for
competitive bids or, when competitive bidding is not required, for the period
of time that is mutually agreed upon by the political subdivision and insurance
company. The period of time does not have to be, but can be, limited to the
fiscal cycle under which the political subdivision is funded and operated.
      (2)   (a)   Regardless of whether a political subdivision procures a
policy of liability insurance pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section or
otherwise, the political subdivision may establish and maintain a self-
insurance program relative to its and its employees’ potential liability in
damages in civil actions for injury, death, or loss to persons or property
allegedly caused by an act or omission of the political subdivision or any of
its employees in connection with a governmental or proprietary function. The
political subdivision may reserve such funds as it deems appropriate in a
special fund that may be established pursuant to an ordinance or resolution of
the political subdivision and not subject to R.C. § 5705.12. The political
subdivision may allocate the costs of insurance of a self-insurance program, or
both, among the funds or accounts in the subdivision’s treasury on the basis of
relative exposure and loss experience. The political subdivision may require
any deductibles under an insurance or self-insurance program, or both, to be
paid from funds or accounts in the subdivision’s treasury from which a loss was
directly attributable. If it so chooses, the political subdivision may contract
with any person, other political subdivision, or regional council of
governments for purposes of the administration of the program.
         (b)   Political subdivisions that have established self-insurance
programs relative to their and their employees’ potential liability as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section may mutually agree that their
self-insurance programs will be jointly administered in a specific manner.
   (B)   The purchase of liability insurance, or the establishment and
maintenance of a self- insurance program, by a political subdivision does not
constitute a waiver of any immunity or defense of the political subdivision or
its employees, except that the political subdivision may specifically waive any
immunity or defense to which it or its employees may be entitled if a provision
to that effect is specifically included in the policy of insurance or in a
written plan of operation of the self-insurance program, or if any, the
legislative enactment of the political subdivision authorizing the purchase of
the insurance or the establishment and maintenance of the self-insurance
program. Such a specific waiver shall be only to the extent of the insurance or
self-insurance program coverage.
   (C)   The authorizations for political subdivisions to secure insurance and
to establish and maintain self-insurance programs in this section are in
addition to any other authority to secure insurance or to establish and
maintain self-insurance programs that is granted pursuant to the Ohio Revised
Code or the Ohio Constitution, and they are not in derogation of any other
authorization.
(R.C. § 2744.08)
   (D)   If a political subdivision, pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this
section or a joint self- insurance pool pursuant to R.C. § 2744.081, has
allocated costs to, or required the payment of deductibles from, funds or
accounts in the subdivision’s treasury, the subdivisions’s fiscal officer,
pursuant to ordinance or resolution of the legislative authority, shall
transfer amounts equal to those costs or deductibles from the funds or accounts
of the subdivision’s General Fund if both of the following occur:
      (1)   The subdivision requests payment from the employee responsible for
the funds or accounts for those costs or deductibles;
      (2)   The employee receiving the request fails to remit payment within 45
days after the date of receipt of the request.
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 5705.14, 5705.15 and 5705.16 do not apply to
transfers made pursuant to division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2744.082)
(Prior Code, § 36.07)
Statutory reference:
   Joint municipal self-insurance pools, see R.C. § 2744.081
§ 36.08 CERTAIN ACTIONS UNAFFECTED.
   This chapter does not apply to, and shall not be construed to apply to, the
following:
   (A)   Civil actions that seek to recover damages from a political
subdivision or any of its employees for contractual liability;
   (B)   Civil actions by an employee, or the collective bargaining
representative of an employee, against his or her political subdivision
relative to any matter that arises out of the employment relationship between
the employee and the political subdivision;
   (C)   Civil actions by an employee of a political subdivision against the
political subdivision relative to wages, hours, conditions, or other terms of
his or her employment;
   (D)   Civil actions by sureties, and the rights of sureties, under fidelity
or surety bonds;
   (E)   Civil claims based upon alleged violations of the Constitution or
statutes of the United States, except that the provisions of §
36.06 shall apply to such claims or related civil actions.
(R.C. § 2744.09) (Prior Code, § 36.08)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
Section
   
37.01   Introduction
   
37.02   Public records
   
37.03   Record requests
   
37.04   Costs for public records
   
37.05   E-mail
   
37.06   Failure to respond to public records request
§ 37.01 INTRODUCTION.
   The city adopts this public records policy to reflect its belief that
openness leads to a better informed citizenry, which leads to better government
and better public policy. It is the policy of the city to strictly adhere to
the state’s Public Records Act. All exemptions to openness are to be construed
in their narrowest sense and any denial of public records in response to a
valid request must be accompanied by an explanation, including legal authority,
as outlined in the Ohio Revised Code. If the request is in writing, the
explanation must also be in writing.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Res. 05-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Availability of public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 37.02 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   The city, in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code, defines RECORDS as
including the following: any document, paper, electronic (including but not
limited to e-mail) or other format that is created or received by, or comes
under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents the organization,
functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations or other activities of
the office. All records of the city are public unless they are specifically
exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that, as required by state law, records
will be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for
inspection and copying (See § 37.05 for the e-mail record policy). Record
retention schedules are to be updated regularly and posted prominently.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Res. 05-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Public record defined, see R.C. § 149.43(A)
   Records Commissions generally, see R.C. §§ 149.38 through 149.45
§ 37.03 RECORD REQUESTS.
   Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using the
following guidelines.
   (A)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the public office to identify, retrieve and review the records. If it
is not clear what records are being sought, the records custodian must contact
the requester for clarification, and should assist the requestor in revising
the request by informing the requester of the manner in which the office keeps
its records.
   (B)   The requester does not have to put a records request in writing, and
does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record. It is the city’s general policy that this information
not be requested.
   (C)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. “Prompt” and “reasonable”
take into account the volume of records requested; the proximity of the
location where the records are stored; and the necessity for any legal review
of the records requested.
   (D)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. Routine requests for records should be
satisfied immediately, if feasible to do so. Routine requests include, but are
not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
information, forms and applications, personnel rosters and the like. If fewer
than 20 pages of copies are requested or if the records are readily available
in an electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should
be made as quickly as the equipment allows. If more copies are requested, an
appointment should be made with the requester on when the copies or computer
files can be picked up. Each public official or employee responsible for
responding to a public records request shall prepare, make available for
inspection, and shall make copies of, if requested, the requested public
records promptly, subject to that person’s duties to respond to calls for other
important city services, including emergency calls for services which relate to
the preservation of the health and safety of people, and the preservation of
property, within the community. All requests for public records must either be
satisfied or be acknowledged in writing by the public office within a
reasonable time following the office’s receipt of the request. If a request is
deemed significantly beyond “routine”, such as seeking a voluminous number of
copies or requiring extensive research, the acknowledgment must include the
following:
      (1)   An estimated number of business days it will take to satisfy the
request;
      (2)   An estimated cost if copies are requested; and
      (3)   Any items within the request that may be exempt from disclosure.
   (E)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and portions are
exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest released. If there
are redactions, each redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation,
including legal authority.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Res. 05-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 37.04 COSTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of making
copies.
   (A)   The charge for paper copies is $0.05 per page.
   (B)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1 per
disc.
   (C)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
   (D)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
(Prior Code, § 37.04) (Res. 05-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 37.05 E-MAIL.
   Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined by the Ohio
Revised Code when their content relates to the business of the office. E-mail
is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other formats and should
follow the same retention schedules.
   (A)   Records in private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business are
subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of the city are
instructed to retain their e-mails that relate to public business (see §
37.02 Public Records) and to copy them to their business e-mail accounts and/or
to the office’s records custodian.
   (B)   The records custodian is to treat the e-mails from private accounts as
records of the public office, filing them in the appropriate way, retaining
them per established schedules and making them available for inspection and
copying in accordance with the Public Records Act.
(Prior Code, § 37.05) (Res. 05-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Availability of public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 37.06 FAILURE TO RESPOND TO PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   The city recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of failure to
properly respond to a public records request. In addition to the distrust in
government that failure to comply may cause, the city’s failure to comply with
a request may result in a court ordering the city to comply with the law and to
pay the requester attorney’s fees and damages.
(Prior Code, § 37.06) (Res. 05-08, passed 6-23-2008)
CHAPTER 38: FINANCES
Section
Finance Department
   
38.01   Assistant Treasurer/Tax Commissioner, Finance/Tax Clerk and Finance/Tax
Clerk II
Investment and Depository Policy
   
38.15   Scope
   
38.16   Objectives and guidelines
   
38.17   Authorized financial institutions and dealers and investments
   
38.18   Investments Advisory Committee
   
38.19   Safekeeping and custody
   
38.20   Authorization to sign policy
Funds
   
38.35   Police Explorer Donation Fund
   
38.36   Centennial Celebration Fund
   
38.37   Capital Improvement Water Distribution Fund
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 38.01 ASSISTANT TREASURER/TAX COMMISSIONER, FINANCE/TAX CLERK AND FINANCE/TAX
CLERK II.
   (A)   There is hereby created effective March 1, 2012 the positions of
Assistant Treasurer/Tax Commissioner, Finance/Tax Clerk I and Finance/Tax Clerk
II for the purpose of restructuring the Finance and Tax Departments of the
city.
   (B)   The position descriptions for these new positions shall be as provided
in the attached Exhibits A, B and C, which are adopted by reference and
incorporated as a part of this code as if fully set out herein. A copy is on
file with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 12-10, passed 2-27-2012)
INVESTMENT AND DEPOSITORY POLICY
§ 38.15 SCOPE.
   The Investment Advisory Committee hereby directs that the investing
authority of this public entity shall reside with the Treasurer of the city in
accordance with this investment policy. This policy is designed to cover all
monies under the control of the city and those that comprise the core
investment portfolio. Notwithstanding the policies detailed below, R.C. Chapter
135 will be adhered to at all times.
(Prior Code, § 38.15) (Res. 07-10, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 38.16 OBJECTIVES AND GUIDELINES.
   The following investment objectives will be applied in the management of
this public entity’s funds.
   (A)   The primary objective shall be the preservation of capital and
protection of principal while earning investment interest.
   (B)   In investing public funds, the Treasurer will strive to achieve a fair
and safe average rate of return on the investment portfolio over the course of
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account state law, safety
considerations and cash flow requirements.
   (C)   The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to enable
the Treasurer to meet reasonably anticipated operating requirements.
   (D)   The investment portfolio should be diversified in order to avoid
incurring potential losses regarding individual securities which may not be
held to maturity, whether by erosion of market value or change in market
conditions.
   (E)   Investments may be redeemed or sold prior to maturity if the Treasurer
determines that:
      (1)   Other more suitable investments can be obtained which would better
serve the city’s needs; and/or
      (2)   The city has experienced an unexpected need for greater liquidity.
   (F)   Investments shall be made with the exercise of that degree of judgment
and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence,
discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs,
not for speculation but for investment, considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (G)   Bank account relations will be managed in order to secure adequate
services while minimizing costs. Deposits should be concentrated in single
accounts except where audit control considerations dictate otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 38.16) (Res. 07-10, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 38.17 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND DEALERS AND INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment accounts may be maintained at financial institutions,
United States Department of Treasury or dealers who are members of the National
Association of Security Dealers (NASD). Allowable investments with maturities
of five years or less include United States and federal agency and
instrumentality obligations, money market accounts, repurchase agreements,
banker acceptances, certificates of deposit and commercial paper (rated by two
agencies in their two highest categories). Investment account holdings are not
subject to public depository or collateral requirements as described in R.C.
Chapter 135. Investment accounts should be protected by FDIC, FSLIC or SIPC.
   (B)   Permitted investments also include the State Treasurer’s investment
pool (Star Ohio) or other State Treasurer investment instruments.
   (C)   Securities purchased directly from a financial institution, United
States Treasury or dealer under the terms of this policy and held by the city
are not considered interim funds under a depository agreement as described in
R.C. Chapter 135.
   (D)   Collateral pledged to secure repayment of public monies shall be those
acceptable under R.C. §§ 135.18 and 135.181, with the exception that letters of
credit issued by federal government agencies or instrumentalities shall not be
acceptable collateral for city depositories.
   (E)   A list of authorized institutions and dealers shall be maintained with
the investing authority. Additions and deletions to this list shall be made
when deemed in the best interest of the investing authority.
(Prior Code, § 38.17) (Res. 07-10, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 38.18 INVESTMENTS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The Budget and Finance Committee appointed by the Mayor of the city shall
serve as the Investments Advisory Committee for the city and shall meet no
fewer than two times a year. Specific areas of review include investment
inventory, transactions and realized income. Changes to the investment policy
shall be submitted to City Council for approval, and a copy filed with the
State Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 38.18) (Res. 07-10, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 38.19 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Securities purchased for the city may be held in safekeeping by a
qualified trustee (hereinafter referred to as a “custodian”), as provided in
R.C. § 135.37. Securities held in safekeeping by a custodian will be evidenced
by a statement describing such securities.
   (B)   The Treasurer or custodian may keep the city’s securities in:
      (1)   Federal Reserve Bank book entry form;
      (2)   Depository Trust Company (DTC) book entry form in the account of
the custodian or the custodian’s correspondent bank; or
      (3)   Non-book entry (physical) securities held by the custodian or the
custodian’s correspondent bank.
   (C)   All securities transactions will settle using standard delivery versus
payment (DVP) procedures. The records of the custodian shall identify such
securities in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.19) (Res. 07-10, passed 7-26-2010)
§ 38.20 AUTHORIZATION TO SIGN POLICY.
   The Treasurer is granted the authority to approve the investment policy on
behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.20) (Res. 07-10, passed 7-26-2010)
FUNDS
§ 38.35 POLICE EXPLORER DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Special Revenue Fund SR-54 Police Explorer Donation Fund is hereby
established to enable the city to collect donations for said purpose of
supporting the Police Explorer program.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make expenditures from the
Fund for any lawful purpose in furtherance of training and supplies for the
Police Explorer program.
(Prior Code, § 38.35) (Ord. 08-40, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 38.36 CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION FUND.
   (A)   Special Revenue Fund SR-55 Madeira Centennial Celebration Fund is
hereby established to enable the city to collect donations for said purpose of
supporting the centennial celebration.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make expenditures from the
fund for any approved centennial celebration expense.
(Prior Code, § 38.36) (Ord. 09-31, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 38.37 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT WATER DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the SR-87 Capital Improvement Water
Distribution Fund to enable the city to account for the funds received from the
Village of Indian Hill Water District.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make expenditures from this
fund for the purpose of replacing and maintaining the water distribution system
within the Indian Hill Water District.
(Prior Code, § 38.37) (Ord. 13-07, passed 1-14-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWAGE SYSTEM
      
51.   SURFACE WATER RUNOFF
      
52.   STORMWATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ASSOCIATION
CHAPTER 50: SEWAGE SYSTEM
Section
   
50.01   Hamilton County Metropolitan Sewer District rules adopted
   
50.02   Shawnee Run tap-in fee
§ 50.01 HAMILTON COUNTY METROPOLITAN SEWER DISTRICT RULES ADOPTED.
   The city is a participating member of the Hamilton County Metropolitan Sewer
District and all sewage facilities, services and rates pertaining to sewage
handling shall be covered by the rules and regulations of the Hamilton County
Metropolitan Sewer District agreement.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 20-04, passed 3-9-2020)
§ 50.02 SHAWNEE RUN TAP-IN FEE.
   Prior to issuing a building permit for sewer construction, a tap-in fee of
$500 shall be paid to the City Manager through the City Manager’s office.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
CHAPTER 51: SURFACE WATER RUNOFF
Section
   
51.01   Discharge of surface water and other runoff
   
51.02   Inspection of tests of drains and downspouts
   
51.03   Notice of violations
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Storm drainage in subdivisions, see §
151.084
   Water distribution system in subdivisions, see §
151.088
   Waters and watercourses, see
Ch. 96
Resolution reference:
   Adopting rules and regulations for the Hamilton County Stormwater District,
see Res. 03-09
§ 51.01 DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATER AND OTHER RUNOFF.
   (A)   (1)   Surface water, rain water from roofs, subsoil drainage water,
building foundation drainage water, cistern overflow water, clean water from
condensers, wastewater from water motors and elevators, and any other clean and
unobjectionable wastewater shall be discharged into a stormwater sewer whenever
and wherever a sewer is available to receive the water.
      (2)   Where a sewer is not available, the water shall be discharged into
street gutters or natural watercourses.
      (3)   However, the water shall not be discharged into a sanitary sewer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge this water into a
house sewer or drain, driveway approach, downspout or other rain water leader
connected to or with a sanitary sewer, or to tap a house drain or sewer so
connected for the purpose of discharging this water into it. Any existing
connection in violation of the provisions of this section shall be abandoned
and removed.
   (C)   Wherever a stormwater sewer is available to receive this water,
downspouts shall be connected thereto with four-inch sealed joint tile.
   (D)   A stormwater sewer shall be deemed to be available to receive this
water from the land of each particular person owning real property in the city
wherever the sewer is located within the property or within 100 feet from any
boundary of the property.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 INSPECTION OF TESTS OF DRAINS AND DOWNSPOUTS.
   The City Manager or any deputy designated by him or her is authorized and
empowered, at any and all reasonable times, to enter and inspect any premises,
building or structure within the city with regard to the existence of any
violation of this chapter which may constitute a health hazard or create a
hazard in case of rain; and with regard to the condition, capacity,
arrangements, efficiency and connections of all devices on or in the premises,
building or structure, for the disposition of this water. In pursuance of this
inspection, he or she is authorized and empowered, without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, to make or cause to be made, on behalf of the
city, a dye test or other reasonable test on the house drains, driveway
approaches, downspouts and other facilities and means for the disposition of
this water, or on any premises, building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   The City Manager shall notify by certified mail the person having the right
to the possession of the premises, building or structure where a determination
has been made that drains, approaches, downspouts, facilities or means are
faulty, improperly constructed or connected, or otherwise in violation of §§
51.01 and
51.02. The notice shall apprise the person of the conditions and violations
found to exist and shall require correction of the violation within 30 days
from the mailing of the notice. Such person shall comply with the requirement
within 30 days. Failure to receive any notice shall not, however, relieve any
person from compliance with each and all the provisions of §§
51.01 and
51.02.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, on conviction,
be fined not more than $50 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
to have been committed each period of 24 hours the violation continues after a
period of 30 days following the first conviction.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Establishment
   
52.02   General regulations
   
52.03   Master plan
   
52.04   Permits and plan review
   
52.05   Application for permit
   
52.06   Permits issued
   
52.07   Permit limitations
   
52.08   Permit and inspection fees
   
52.09   Posting of permit
   
52.10   Revocation of permit
   
52.11   Inspection and surveillance
   
52.12   Notice of violations
   
52.13   Right of entry for survey and examination
   
52.14   Funding
   
52.15   Stormwater Fund
   
52.16   Classification of property
   
52.17   Land use intensity of development factors
   
52.18   Rates
   
52.19   Delinquent charges
   
52.20   Notice to correct drainage
   
52.21   Emergencies and abatement
   
52.22   Abatement costs
   
52.23   Appeals and variances
   
52.24   Contents of petition
   
52.25   Filing fee
   
52.26   Board of Appeals
   
52.27   Emergency situations
   
52.28   Flooding; liability
   
52.29   Severability
   
52.30   Violation of sections
   
52.31   Accessories
   
52.32   Definitions
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Resolution reference:
   Adopting rules and regulations for the Hamilton County Stormwater District,
see Res. 03-09
§ 52.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Whereas, there is currently no systematic program for the management
of stormwater drainage in the city;
   (B)   Whereas, circumstances dictate that a systematic approach to the
management of stormwater drainage be implemented in the city;
   (C)   Whereas, Council finds that the repair, replacement, improvement,
management and regulation of the stormwater system is necessary to prevent
further deterioration of the existing system, to prevent or reduce the
potential for flooding and to prevent water pollution;
   (D)   Whereas, it may be necessary, desirable and in the best interest of
the stormwater system to establish a special charge for the facility, which
charge shall be designated to the stormwater drainage charge and shall be
imposed and collected as provided by separate ordinance when necessary; and
   (E)   Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council that a Madeira
Stormwater Management Authority (MSMA) is established for the control of
stormwater which affects the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall establish engineering projects to correct flooding of
the city property owners.
   (B)   The city may accept from the property owner natural and/or altered
watercourse easements for the purpose of maintenance.
   (C)   Natural watercourse easements may not be disturbed without approval of
the city. The city shall approve each altered watercourse.
   (D)   The property owner shall maintain natural and altered watercourses
unless this property owner gives to the city the maintenance easement. Upon the
receipt and acceptance of the maintenance easement, the city shall have the
authority to maintain the natural and altered watercourse.
   (E)   The city has the authority to procure private property or maintenance
easements through its more general right of eminent domain for the construction
and maintenance of stormwater projects.
   (F)   The value of procured property shall be the fair market value.
   (G)   The value of procured maintenance easements shall be $l.
   (H)   During property development within the city, effective erosion and
sediment controls shall be planned and applied according to the following
principles.
      (1)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at any one
time during development.
      (2)   When land is exposed, time exposure should be kept to the shortest
practical period of time.
      (3)   Temporary vegetation and/or mulching should be used to protect
critical areas exposed during development.
      (4)   Sediment basins (debris basin or silt traps) should be installed
and maintained to remove sediment from runoff water from the land under
development.
      (5)   Permanent final vegetation and structures should be installed as
soon as practical in the development.
      (6)   The development should be fitted to the topography and soils so as
to create the least erosion potential.
      (7)   Wherever feasible, natural vegetation should be retained and
protected.
   (I)   The erosion, watercourse and sedimentation plan shall be included in
the general plan.
   (J)   The water runoff rate of newly developed property shall be no greater
than that which existed prior to said development. This provision shall be
included in the development’s general plan.
   (K)   Private stormwater maintenance shall not be done in a way which
affects other property owners or the natural or altered watercourses that exist
without the approval of the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.03 MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall establish and maintain a master plan for a
stormwater system designed to handle the stormwater runoff.
   (B)   The master plan shall provide or be accompanied by maps or other
descriptive material showing, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   An inventory of the existing stormwater facilities plus the extent
and area of each watershed tributary to the main drainage channels in the city;
      (2)   An inventory of all natural and altered watercourse easements,
including ingress and egress easements from and to public streets;
      (3)   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built; the
basis of their design; the outfall, inlet and outlet locations; the receiving
stream or channel and its high water elevation; and the functioning of the
systems and facilities during high water conditions;
      (4)   The parts of the proposed street system where pavements are planned
to be depressed sufficiently to convey or temporarily store overflow from storm
sewers and runoff over the curb resulting from the heavier rainstorms and the
outlets for such overflow;
      (5)   Existing streams and floodplains to be maintained, enlarged,
altered, eliminated and constructed, and their locations, cross-sections and
profiles;
      (6)   Existing culverts and bridges, drainage areas and adequacy of
waterway openings; new culverts and bridges to be built; and waterway openings
and the basis of their design;
      (7)   Existing detention ponds and basins to be maintained;
      (8)   For all detention/retention basins, a tabulation of storage volumes
with corresponding water surface elevations and of the basin outflow rates for
those water surface elevations;
      (9)   For all detention/retention basins, design hydrographs of inflow
and outflow for the design year under developed conditions and the calculated
frequency peak flows from the site under natural and developed conditions;
      (10)   Estimates of cost of proposed projects; and
      (11)   The City Engineer shall submit a master plan draft to the Public
Works Committee within two years following the approval of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
Resolution reference:
   Adoption of the master plan, see Res. 21-88A
§ 52.04 PERMITS AND PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, relocate or demolish a storm sewer, natural watercourse
or other drainage facility, without first filing an application and obtaining a
proper permit.
   (B)   Permits are required and may be granted by the city for the following
improvement categories:
      (1)   Connection into the public stormwater system, except unimproved
creeks or streams;
      (2)   Improvements which are or will become public facilities;
      (3)   Improvements within dedicated but unimproved street rights-of-way;
and
      (4)   Improvements which require retention or detention facilities.
   (C)   Plans for all improvements made within the city that require
stormwater facilities or changes or alterations to existing stormwater
facilities must be submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval.
Plans and applications are to be submitted through the building permit process.
All improvements must conform to the provisions of this chapter or rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder and the master plan. The City Engineer shall
have 30 days after the date of application to review each plan submitted. Plans
that are not approved may be resubmitted after revisions are made. No permit
shall be issued until a plan is approved or the need for a permit is waived by
the City Engineer.
   (D)   Every improvement shall be provided with a stormwater system capable
of handling stormwaters flowing onto the improvement site from other areas as
well as stormwater from the site itself. The drainage system shall be designed
to discharge into a watercourse, drainage channel or other existing stormwater
facility.
   (E)   For developed lots and where new structures, additions or changes are
to be made, adequate surface grading shall be extended or runoff shall be
collected in inlets and then connected to sewers or drains. This grading, and
the drains where necessary, shall be shown on the building permit plan. The
plan shall then be reviewed by the City Engineer.
   (F)   Where plans are being developed, all areas shall be graded and drained
to prevent the standing of stormwater, except lakes, lagoons or retention
reservoirs approved by the City Engineer. Where necessary, drainage channels or
sewers shall be provided to convey the water to an existing watercourse or
outlet. The method and means of drainage, including the handling of both paved
and unpaved areas, shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer.
   (G)   Facilities shall be provided to drain all street intersections, and to
care for roof downspouts and drains from yards and driveway aprons. Where
foundation drains are installed, the foundation drains must discharge to the
surface water drainage system directly or through a sump pump installation.
   (H)   Except for existing combined sewers, the stormwater drainage system
shall not be combined with any part of the sanitary sewer system, nor shall
sanitary wastewater be discharged thereto.
   (I)   Connection into a storm sewer shall be performed only by sewer tappers
who meet the following requirements.
      (1)   They are licensed by the City of Cincinnati.
      (2)   They have posted a bond with the city in the amount of $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application shall be made by the owner of the property involved, or
an authorized agent employed in connection with the proposed work.
   (B)   The application shall be prepared in writing on printed forms
prescribed by the City Engineer and shall contain the full names and addresses
of the owner, applicant and contractor; the street and house number of the
building or structure; a brief description of the proposed work; the estimated
cost thereof; a statement on behalf of the owner that the proposed work will be
in accordance with this code and all laws and ordinances applying to the
premises; and such other information as may be required by the City Engineer.
   (C)   All applications for permits shall be accompanied by three sets of
plans and two sets of specifications. Plans and specifications shall be
prepared in accordance with the City Engineer’s requirements. In addition to
the plans and specifications, the applicant shall provide any statements,
calculations, drawings and other supporting data regarding the manner in which
stormwater runoff from the project site on the proposed development area will
be controlled.
   (D)   The applicant shall provide a bond equal to the cost of the proposed
project.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 PERMITS ISSUED.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall examine the applications as described in the
plan review process. The proposed stormwater drainage system must be designed
so as to fit into the existing or planned stormwater drainage system as
prepared by the City Engineer. The design, materials and construction of all
parts of the drainage system shall satisfy the requirements of the City
Engineer and, when involving highways and freeways, the requirements of the
Department of Transportation of the state.
   (B)   If the examination reveals no objections to the proposed plan and it
appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the master plan,
codes, laws and ordinances applicable thereto and the proposed construction or
work will be in conformance with this chapter, such application shall be
approved and a permit issued, as soon as practicable, for the proposed work. If
the examination reveals otherwise, such application shall be rejected and the
findings shall be communicated in writing to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.07 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A permit shall expire when no work is started within 180 days from the
date of issuance; provided, however, that one renewal, which shall be valid
from 180 days commencing upon expiration of the original permit, shall be
granted upon written application made prior to the expiration of the original
permit and payment of the fee prescribed in §
52.08.
   (B)   A permit shall be revoked when work is discontinued for a period of
one year or when, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the completion of the
work has been unduly delayed. No revoked permit may be revived until the plans
and uncompleted work are made to comply with all the requirements of all laws,
codes, regulations and ordinances then in effect.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.08 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   A permit fee and an inspection fee shall be paid as detailed herein
for all stormwater facilities to be constructed. The fees shall be determined
by the City Engineer in accordance with the guidelines herein.
   (B)   Permit fees for connections into the public stormwater system, except
unimproved creeks and streams, shall be $40.
   (C)   Inspection fees and plan review fees for other permits required as set
forth in the rules and regulations, shall be based on an hourly rate reasonably
related to the cost to the city. The owner is responsible for all plan, review
and inspection fees. A deposit shall be required to provide for inspection
fees.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.09 POSTING OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous location at the project
site if possible. If not, the owner or contractor shall retain the permit and
have it readily available upon request by the Utility Division.
   (B)   The owner or contractor shall preserve the permit until completion of
the work. Upon application by the owner or contractor, the City Engineer shall
issue a duplicate permit to replace one destroyed by vandals or one which is
accidentally destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 52.09) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City Engineer may revoke the permit or stop work for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Whenever there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, any
ordinance of the city or statute of the state relating to the project;
   (B)   Whenever the continuance of any work becomes dangerous to life or
property;
   (C)   Whenever there is a violation of any condition on which the issuance
of the permit was based; or
   (D)   Whenever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made upon
the application, plans or specifications on which the issuance of the permit or
approval was based.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.11 INSPECTION AND SURVEILLANCE.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall inspect the permit premises and enforce all
laws relating to construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
equipment, use, location and maintenance of the drainage facilities, except as
may be otherwise provided for. The City Engineer shall, when the interests of
the city so require, make investigations in connection with matters referred to
in this code and render written reports on the same. For the purpose of
enforcing compliance with the law, the City Engineer shall issue such notices
or orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall keep careful and comprehensive records of
applications, permits, inspections, reports rendered, notices, orders issued
and approvals. All such records shall be open for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 52.11) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When the City Engineer finds the drainage facility or the construction
thereof is contrary to the approved plans, or presents an unsafe or dangerous
condition in connection with the provisions of this code or of any law or
ordinance relating to the same subject matter, the Engineer shall give notice
to the owner of the premises. The notice shall state where and in what respect
the work does not conform to the approved plans, or state the defective
condition and law violated, and shall specify a reasonable period of time in
which to conform to the plans or this code.
   (B)   In every instance, a revocation notice of the permit shall be in
writing and shall be served upon the owner, agent or the person having charge
of the work. A revocation notice shall also be posted alongside the permit.
After the notice is received or posted, it shall be unlawful for any person to
proceed with any operation for which such permit was issued. No part of the
fees for such permit shall be returned.
   (C)   Notice, as required by this section, is to be served on the owner,
agent, contractor or other person responsible for the work or violation related
to this chapter, by personal delivery or by certified mail addressed to the
last-known place of residence or place of business.
(Prior Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR SURVEY AND EXAMINATION.
   (A)   After presenting proper credentials and securing permission, the
employees of the Public Works Division or its agents, including contractors and
their employees and consultants and their employees, may enter upon lands
within the city to make surveys and examinations to accomplish the necessary
preliminary findings to establish a master plan and for detailed analysis to
prepare final plans and specifications for the proposed improvements and
easements.
   (B)   Where improvements are made that require periodic maintenance or
inspection upon the lands by the Madeira Stormwater Management Authority, the
owner of such land shall grant the city a perpetual easement and right of entry
around and access to any stormwater channel or facility, including storm
sewers.
(Prior Code, § 52.13) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 FUNDING.
   Funding for the stormwater Madeira Stormwater Management Authority
activities shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit and inspection fees. Permit and inspection fees;
   (B)   Direct charges. This charge will be collected from the owner and
developers for the cost of designing and constructing stormwater facilities and
administrative costs and related expenses where the Madeira Stormwater
Management Authority designs and/or constructs or contracts for the
construction of such facilities;
   (C)   Direct assessment. This charge will be collected from owners in
localized areas that desire stormwater drainage facilities not considered a
part of the regional development or where an improvement is desired ahead of
the priority status;
   (D)   Other income. Other income obtained from federal, state, local and
private grants or revolving funds; and
   (E)   Fees. The fees shall be defined as the usual and customary cost.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.15 STORMWATER FUND.
   All revenues generated by or on behalf of the Madeira Stormwater Management
Authority, including storm drainage service charges, permit and inspection fees
and direct charges and interest earnings on those revenues shall be deposited
in a Stormwater Fund and used exclusively for Madeira Stormwater Management
Authority purposes.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.16 CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY.
   There shall be three classifications of property for determination of the
storm drainage charge.
   (A)   Class A, one- and two-family residential properties having land area
10,000 square feet or less. Typically, these types of property comprise about
7,500 square feet total, area range number (ARN 4) and an intensity of
development factor (IDF) of .25, which constitutes an equivalent runoff unit
(ERU) of 1.00. A flat rate or value of 1.00 ERU shall be applied to all one-
and two-family residential property having a land area 10,000 square feet or
less.
   (B)   Class B, one- and two-family residential properties having a land area
10,001 square feet or larger. Typically, these types of property comprise about
13,000 square feet total, area range number (ARN 7) and an intensity of
development factor (IDF) of .20 which constitutes an equivalent runoff unit
(ERU) of 1.40. A flat rate or value of 1.40 ERU shall be applied to all one-
and two-family residential property having a land area 10,001 square feet or
larger.
   (C)   Class C, multi-family (three families or more) residential property
and nonresidential property. The gross area, total square footage, of each
Class C property shall be grouped in 2,000 square foot ranges and assigned an
area range number (ARN).
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.17 LAND USE INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT FACTORS.
   (A)   Nine land uses are identified and recognized for purposes of this
chapter, each of which has an assigned intensity of development factor (IDF).
   (B)   The land use of each Class C property shall be assigned based on the
records of the County Recorder or Auditor, the city or through field
examination or photogrametric analysis.
Land-Use IDF
Land-Use                                          IDF
Agriculture                                       .08
Commercial                                        .85
Industrial                                        .75
Institutional                                     .40
Multi-family                                      .60
Park and undeveloped                              .05
Residential Class A; up to 10,000 square feet     .25
Residential Class B; 10,001 square feet or larger .20
Transportation                                    .50
 
(Prior Code, § 52.17) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.18 RATES.
   The City Engineer is directed to prepare a list of all lots and parcels
within the city and the area thereof, and assign a classification. All
properties included in Class C shall be assigned an area range number (ARN) and
intensity of development factor (IDF). The City Engineer shall report any
applications of the provisions which the utility engineer considers unjust or
inequitable, and the matter shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions
of §
52.19. The fee schedule shall be on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 52.18) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.19 DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   (A)   All charges not paid within 30 days after receipt of billing or under
appeal shall be considered delinquent.
   (B)   All charges in arrears and delinquent hereunder shall:
      (1)   Be subject to an interest charge at the statutory rate;
      (2)   Be subject to a rebilling charge covering administrative cost; and
      (3)   Constitute a lien upon the real property affected from the date
charges are incurred.
   (C)   Charges which remain unpaid for a period of 60 days may be reported to
City Council for assessment against the real property. In the alternative,
Council may direct the City Law Director to file suit and collect unpaid
charges.
(Prior Code, § 52.19) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 NOTICE TO CORRECT DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer shall find that a tract of land is
inadequately drained, or that there is an obstruction to a culvert, covered
drain or other natural or human-made watercourse that interferes with water
naturally flowing therein or that such culvert, drain or watercourse is of
insufficient capacity to reasonably accommodate the flow of water as required
by this chapter, the City Engineer or a person designated by the City Engineer
shall notify the owner or person having possession, charge or management of
such land to remove the obstruction or provide the necessary drainage. Such
notice shall be served on such persons by personal delivery, by mail at the
last known place of residence, or by posting on the premises.
   (B)   The owner must comply with the City Engineer’s orders within the time
specified and not to exceed 30 days. Failure to comply with such order shall
constitute an unlawful act. Each additional period of ten days thereafter
during which the owner fails to carry out the order of the City Engineer, or a
designee, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 EMERGENCIES AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In case of an emergency, the City Engineer may direct that action be
taken immediately to correct the condition or abate the activity to protect the
public health, safety and welfare. The Utility Division may perform the
required work and charge the owner the abatement costs.
   (B)   In any case where a condition described in this section exists for
more than 30 days after service of notice, City Council may by resolution
direct the owner to fill or drain such land, remove any obstruction and, if
necessary, enlarge the culverts, drains or watercourse to meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (C)   After service of a copy of such resolution or after publication in a
paper of general circulation in the city for two consecutive weeks, the owner,
agent or attorney shall comply with the directions of the resolution within the
time therein specified. When the resolution is submitted to the appropriate
Council committee, the owner shall be afforded notice and an opportunity to be
heard prior to passage of the resolution. In the event an owner fails or
refuses to comply with Council’s resolution, the Madeira Stormwater Management
Authority may perform the required work and charge the owner the abatement
costs. Such costs shall constitute a lien on the real property from the time of
the adoption of the resolution which may be enforced by suit in the Court of
Common Pleas.
(Prior Code, § 52.21) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.22 ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall account for all costs associated with an
emergency or abatement, including but not limited to administration,
notification, inspection, serving of papers or documents, legal counsel, force
account labor, enforcement, operational services and outside contracted
services. These costs shall be charged to the owner.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to relieve the owner of any
penalties prescribed by other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
52.22, any person who has a bona fide controversy with the City Engineer as to
the interpretation or application of a provision of this chapter or related
laws or ordinances pertaining to stormwater management and subject to the
administration of the City Engineer, may apply in writing to the City Engineer
for a written interpretation or ruling, setting forth in his or her petition
the requirements of §
52.24.
   (B)   When the City Engineer has rendered a written interpretation or
ruling, or has issued a written order to make repairs, maintenance or
alterations, the complainant shall be allowed 30 days from the date of the
receipt of the same, within which to file with the City Engineer an appeal to
the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The appeal shall be based on one of the following grounds:
      (1)   The interpretation, ruling or order is erroneous or constitutes an
erroneous application of the particular provisions of the drainage code or
other related laws or ordinances pertaining to stormwater management and
finance, or is otherwise contrary to law; or
      (2)   A variance is necessary and feasible whereby the Board of Appeals
shall make the following findings:
         (a)   Good and sufficient cause based on an unreasonable burden or
hardship has been proven;
         (b)   The granting of the variance would not result in any increase in
quantity or velocity of flow, degradation of water quality or negative impacts
upon adjoining or downstream properties, nor upon the stormwater system;
         (c)   The degree of variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief
from the unreasonable burden or hardship imposed by the drainage code or
standards, specifications, requirements, regulations and procedures adopted
pursuant to this code; and/or
         (d)   The variance may be granted without defeating the public health,
safety and welfare purposes and intent of the drainage code or related laws or
ordinances pertaining to stormwater management and finance.
(Prior Code, § 52.23) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.24 CONTENTS OF PETITION.
   (A)   The complainant shall set forth in the petition for appeal, the
interpretation, ruling or order appealed from, and the provisions of the
drainage code or related laws or ordinances, and shall state wherein the
interpretation, ruling or order is erroneous.
   (B)   If the appeal is based on a request for variance, the petition shall
point out the provision or provisions from which the variance is sought and how
the request satisfies the requirements of §
52.23(C)(2).
(Prior Code, § 52.24) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.25 FILING FEE.
   No appeal petition shall be accepted for filing unless the complainant, at
the time of filing, pays a fee of $50 to partially compensate the city for the
direct and indirect expenditures, costs and extra work occasioned by the filing
and prosecution of the appeal. Such filing fee shall be in addition to the
payment of the permits and inspection fees and any or other fee which
thereafter may occur, and no portion of such filing fee shall be refunded,
whatever the outcome of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 52.25) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.26 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   A board consisting of a member designated by and from the Planning
Commission, the City Law Director and the Chairperson of the Public Works
Committee of Council shall serve as the Board of Appeals to hear and determine
any appeal filed under §
52.23.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall have full authority to affirm, modify,
reverse or set aside the interpretation, ruling or order appealed or to grant a
variance, and its decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 52.26) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.27 EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent immediate action by
the City Manager in emergency situations.
(Prior Code, § 52.27) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.28 FLOODING; LIABILITY.
   Floods from stormwater runoff may occasionally occur which exceed the
capacity of storm drainage facilities constructed, operated or maintained by
funds made available under this chapter. This chapter does not imply that
property subject to the fees and charges established herein will always be free
from stormwater flooding or flood damage, or that stormwater systems capable of
handling all storm events can be cost effectively constructed, operated or
maintained. Nor shall this chapter create a liability on the part of, or cause
of action against, the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damage that may result from such storms or the runoff thereof. Nor does this
chapter purport to reduce the need or the necessity for obtaining flood
insurance.
(Prior Code, § 52.28) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.29 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or portion of this chapter is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions.
(Prior Code, § 52.29) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.30 VIOLATION OF SECTIONS.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
52.04 and
52.05 by failing to file an application for minor repairs shall first be given
a warning by the City Engineer and thereafter shall be guilty in accordance
with §
52.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
52.09 or fails to obey a warning under §
52.99 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense. Each day and every
day on which such person continues to violate the provisions of this code after
having once been notified of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Any fine hereunder shall be mandatory.
(Prior Code, § 52.30) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 ACCESSORIES.
   Any person being the owner, agent or having control of the premises, or any
architect, engineer, contractor, builder, sub-contractor, foreperson, mechanic,
employee or other person who shall violate or assist in the violation of this
chapter, or of any certificate, order or permit issued hereunder, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each offense.
(Prior Code, § 52.31) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERED WATERCOURSE. The engineering description provided by the property
owner of any alteration to the natural watercourse easement.
   CITY. The City of Madeira.
   NATURAL ELEVATIONS. The elevation which exists prior to property
improvements.
   NATURAL WATERCOURSE EASEMENT. The high water mark which exists during a ten-
year rain prior to property improvements.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER MAINTENANCE. The maintenance which the property owner
does on private property outside of the natural or altered watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 52.32) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
52.30, any person being the owner, agent or having control of the premises, who
violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or fails to conform to any of
the provisions thereof, or fails to obey any order of the City Engineer or his
or her duly authorized agent, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each and every day on which such person continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter after having once been notified of such violation,
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. 87-29, passed 10-5-1987)
CHAPTER 53: MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE ASSOCIATION
Section
   
53.01   Adoption by reference
§ 53.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the affirmative plan of action for
accomplishing minority business enterprise participation requirements of the
Ohio Public Works Commission, and R.C. Chapter 164, by reference, which plan is
attached to Ordinance 90-89 as Exhibit A, and is incorporated as if fully set
forth herein.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts such plan specifically to further provide
participation in the financing of certain projects pursuant to R.C. Chapter 164
and for no other purposes whatsoever. Capital improvement projects which are
not financed pursuant to the procedure and participation as set forth in R.C.
Ch. 164 are not subject to said plan.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 90-89, passed 12-3-1990)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, SNOWMOBILES AND ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Motor vehicles used by traffic officers
   
70.09   Unaccepted streets
   
70.10   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.11   License tax
   
70.12   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.13   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.25   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.26   Signal lights
   
70.27   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.28   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.29   Prohibition against unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.30   Alteration, defacement or removal prohibited
   
70.31   Duties of City Manager
   
70.32   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.33   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.34   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title,
Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
Title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well- drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   NATURAL RESOURCES OFFICER. An officer appointed pursuant to R.C. § 1501.24.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagperson, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
   WILDLIFE OFFICER. An officer designated pursuant to R.C. § 1531.13.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact
finds by proof beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the
offender was fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section, the court shall impose a class five suspension from the
range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been
found guilty of an offense under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any
other substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension
as described in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving
privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of this section as set forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender’s
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Prior Code, § 70.02)
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§ 73.01 and 73.02, do
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area designated by
traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles when traveling
to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05) (Prior Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051) (Prior Code, § 70.06)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08) (Prior Code, § 70.07)
§ 70.08 MOTOR VEHICLES USED BY TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   Any motor vehicle used by any member of the City Police Department while the
officer is on duty for the exclusive or main purpose of enforcing the motor
vehicle or traffic laws of this municipality, provided the offense is
punishable as a misdemeanor, shall be marked in some distinctive manner or
color. The City Manager shall determine the marking and color of Police
Department vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977)
§ 70.09 UNACCEPTED STREETS.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the operation of vehicles
and the traffic of pedestrians upon, and in all respects to, any dedicated but
unaccepted street by whatever name known.
(Prior Code, § 70.09) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of City Manager, see §
70.31
§ 70.10 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28) (Prior Code, § 70.10)
§ 70.11 LICENSE TAX.
   There is hereby levied an annual $5 license tax under the provisions of R.C.
§ 4504.171 to take effect beginning in 1992. The revenue derived from said tax
will be used for the purposes authorized pursuant to R.C. § 4504.171, including
supplementation of costs and expenses associated with the maintenance of public
roads within the city.
(Prior Code, § 70.11) (Ord. 91-64, passed 8-19-1991)
§ 70.12 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
(Prior Code, § 70.12)
§ 70.13 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, university campus police department, park district police force, or
township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
         (e)   A natural resources officer or a wildlife officer.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
(Prior Code, § 70.13)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.25 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
(Prior Code, § 70.25)
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.26 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a U-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right- of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane- use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Prior Code, § 70.26)
§ 70.27 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
(Prior Code, § 70.27)
§ 70.28 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Prior Code, § 70.28)
§ 70.29 PROHIBITION AGAINST UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Prior Code, § 70.29)
§ 70.30 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Prior Code, § 70.30)
§ 70.31 DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager is invested with the authority to erect, install, place and
maintain such traffic- control devices; make and maintain such traffic-control
markings; and erect, install, place, and maintain such signs, meters and
devices for the regulations and prohibition of parking on highways and
municipal property as he or she may deem proper.
(Prior Code, § 70.31) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977)
§ 70.32 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031) (Prior Code, § 70.32)
§ 70.33 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18) (Prior Code, § 70.34)
§ 70.34 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132) (Prior Code, § 70.35)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code,
inclusive of
Chapters 70 through
76 of these codified ordinances, for which no penalty otherwise is provided in
the section violated is guilty of one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in §
72.122 of these codified ordinances, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of §
72.116 of this traffic code or R.C. § 4511.84.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   UTILITY means an entity specified in division (A), (C), (D), (E)
or (G) of R.C. § 4905.03.
         (b)   UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (3)   If an offender violates any provision of this Traffic Code,
inclusive of Chapters 70 through 76 of these codified ordinances, or R.C. §§
4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213,
4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38,
4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441,
4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72 or
4511.73 while distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor
to the commission of the violation, the offender is subject to the applicable
penalty for the violation and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an
additional fine of not more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of this Traffic Code or the Revised Code that indicates
that the offender was distracted while committing the violation and that the
distracting activity was a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender may enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
offender’s right to contest the ticket, citation or summons in a trial provided
that the offender pays the total amount of the fine established for the
violation and pays the additional fine of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(3)(a)2. of this section. If the
offender elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the
course, the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender
successfully completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the
total amount of the fine established for the violation, but shall not be
required to pay the additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the
offender submits to the court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
       (4)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of this Traffic Code or the
Revised Code listed in this division (B) of this section that indicates that
the offender was distracted while committing the violation and that the
distracting activity was a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the officer shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency; and
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers
   
71.02   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.03   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.04   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.05   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.06   Display of certificate of registration
Prohibitions
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Prohibition against permitting minor to operate vehicle
   
71.22   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.23   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.24   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.25   Display of license
   
71.26   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.27   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.28   Operating motor vehicle without valid license
   
71.29   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.30   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation
   
71.31   Failure to reinstate license
Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
71.45   Levy of annual tax
   
71.46   Duration of tax
   
71.47   Payment of tax
   
71.48   Disposition of proceeds
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.60   Definitions
   
71.61   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.62   Prohibited acts
   
71.63   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.64   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.65   Criminal offenses
   
71.66   Application of federal regulations
   
71.67   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
§ 71.02 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.03 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05) (Prior Code, § 71.03)
§ 71.04 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236) (Prior Code, § 71.04)
§ 71.05 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18) (Prior Code, § 71.05)
§ 71.06 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18) (Prior Code, § 71.06)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any statement
required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or
fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) (Prior Code, § 71.20)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PROHIBITION AGAINST PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in- law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
(Prior Code, § 71.21)
§ 71.22 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321) (Prior Code, § 71.22)
§ 71.23 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) (Prior Code, § 71.23)
§ 71.24 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSES; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
(Prior Code, § 71.24)
§ 71.25 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35) (Prior Code, § 71.25)
§ 71.26 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36) (Prior Code, § 71.26)
§ 71.27 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.30 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2935.27, 3123.58, 4301.99,
4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a 12-point suspension, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a minimum term of
three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days of jail time
imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 71.27)
§ 71.28 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
(Prior Code, § 71.28)
§ 71.29 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this section for
which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 71.29)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in division (D)(1) to (D)(3) of this section. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment
of judgment suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (D)(1) to
(D)(3) of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 71.30)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section.
      (2)   The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
(Prior Code, § 71.31)
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 71.45 LEVY OF ANNUAL TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads and highways of the city, pursuant to R.C. §
4504.173, for the purposes of planning, constructing, improving, maintaining,
and repairing public roads, highways, and streets, and to provide additional
revenue for the purposes authorized by R.C. § 4504.173(A)(2), and to supplement
revenues already available for such purpose.
   (B)   The license tax referenced above in division (A) of this section shall
be a the rate of $5 per motor vehicle per year, on each and every motor vehicle
the district of registration of which as defined in R.C. § 4503.10, is in the
city, subject to reductions in the manner provided in R.C. § 4503.11 and
subject to exemptions provided in R.C. §§ 4503.16, 4503.17, 4503.172, 4503.173,
4503.18, 4503.41, 4503.46 and 4503.571.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE shall include all
vehicles so defined in R.C. § 4505.01.
(Prior Code, § 71.45) (Ord. 87-36, passed 9-8-1987; Ord. 20-03, passed 3-9-
2020)
§ 71.46 DURATION OF TAX.
   The annual tax imposed by this section shall apply to and be in effect for
the registration year commencing January 1, 2021, and shall continue in effect
and application during each registration year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46) (Ord. 87-36, passed 9-8-1987; Ord. 20-03, passed 3-9-
2020)
§ 71.47 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The annual tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the State of Ohio, or to Deputy Registrar, at the time
application for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. §
4503.02.
(Prior Code, § 71.47) (Ord. 87-36, passed 9-8-1987; Ord. 20-03, passed 3-9-
2020)
§ 71.48 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   All revenues derived from the annual tax levied herein shall be used by the
city for the purposes specified in this section, or any other purpose
authorized by state law.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) (Ord. 87-36, passed 9-8-1987; Ord. 20-03, passed 3-9-
2020)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, “commercial driver’s license” includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license”.
      (2)   “Enhanced commercial driver’s license” means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01) (Prior Code, § 71.60)
§ 71.61 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011) (Prior Code, § 71.61)
§ 71.62 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
(Prior Code, § 71.62)
§ 71.63 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
(Prior Code, § 71.63)
§ 71.64 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E)) (Prior Code, § 71.64)
§ 71.65 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
   (E)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(C))
(Prior Code, § 71.65)
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.66 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19) (Prior Code, § 71.66)
§ 71.67 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20) (Prior Code, § 71.67)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99) (Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of centerline
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Unnecessary noise
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
   
72.042   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.043   Driver’s duties upon approaching intersection with ambiguous or non-
working traffic signal
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrians
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.061   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.062   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
Through Highways
   
72.090   Through highways
Prohibitions
   
72.105   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.106   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.107   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.108   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.109   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.110   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle with caution
   
72.111   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.112   Prohibition against placing injurious material on highway
   
72.113   Assemblages
   
72.114   Transporting child not in child restraint system prohibited
   
72.115   Prohibition against depositing litter from motor vehicle
   
72.116   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.117   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.118   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.119   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.120   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.121   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.122   Prohibiting operation of a motor vehicle while using or holding an
electronic wireless communication device; texting while driving prohibited
   
72.123   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
School Buses
   
72.135   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.136   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.137   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.138   School bus inspection
   
72.139   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.140   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.141   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.142   School bus marking
   
72.143   Flashing red light signal lamps
   
72.144   Occupant restraining device for operator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Prior Code, § 72.01)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) (Prior Code, § 72.02)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Prior Code, § 72.03)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Prior Code, § 72.04)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Prior Code, § 72.05)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTERLINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Prior Code, § 72.06)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Prior Code, § 72.07)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Prior Code, § 72.08)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Prior Code, § 72.09)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Prior Code, § 72.10)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Prior Code, § 72.11)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Prior Code, § 72.12)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Prior Code, § 72.13)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) (Prior Code, § 72.14)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Prior Code, § 72.15)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Prior Code, § 72.16)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Prior Code, § 72.17)
§ 72.018 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall sound any signaling device in the operation of a
vehicle on any highway except when and to the extent reasonably necessary for
the prevention of an accident and except other reasonable use for purposes of
lawful operation in traffic or of reasonable warning or notice of presence or
approach.
   (B)   No person shall create unnecessary noise or sound in the operation or
enjoyment of a vehicle on any highway or public land so as to disturb the peace
and quiet of a neighborhood or of any ordinary pursuit. Without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing:
      (1)   Any noise produced by a cutout, bypass, gutted muffler, straight
pipe, pinched tail pipe whistle, or the retarding or advancing of the timing of
the spark shall be deemed unnecessary;
      (2)   Any noise emanating from the sound system of a motor vehicle, be it
removable or permanent, which is plainly audible from more than 30 feet from
that vehicle shall be deemed unnecessary;
      (3)   Broadcasting from a public address system, attached in any way to a
motor vehicle, without specific written permission from the City Manager; and
      (4)   It shall be presumed to be a violation of this section if notice to
cease and desist producing a noise has been given to any person and that person
continues to make, cause or permit a noise of similar intensity and duration.
However, such notice shall not be required as an element of an offense of this
section.
   (C)   No person shall place a vehicle in motion from rest or accelerate a
moving vehicle in such a manner as to create excessive and unnecessary noise or
so as to deposit portions of the tires thereof on the surface of the highway
whether from the spinning of the tires against the surface of materials thereon
or from the high number of revolutions of the moving parts of its engine while
the vehicle is in low or intermediate gear or gear range or from any other
cause whatever.
(Prior Code, § 72.18) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977; Ord. 99-10, passed 5-10-
1999)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Prior Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Prior Code, § 72.22)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
(Prior Code, § 72.23)
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Prior Code, § 72.24)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) (Prior Code, § 72.25)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
(Prior Code, § 72.26)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
(Prior Code, § 72.27)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Prior Code, § 72.28)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Prior Code, § 72.29)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) (Prior Code, § 72.30)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Prior Code, § 72.31)
§ 72.042 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Prior Code, § 72.32)
§ 72.043 DRIVER’S DUTIES UPON APPROACHING INTERSECTION WITH AMBIGUOUS OR NON-
WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   The driver of a vehicle, streetcar or trackless trolley who approaches an
intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals shall do
all of the following, if the signal facing him or her either exhibits no
colored lights or colored lighted arrows or exhibits a combination of such
lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate the assignment of right-of-way.
   (A)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop before
entering the intersection;
   (B)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles, streetcars or trackless
trolleys in the intersection or approaching on an intersecting road, if the
vehicles, streetcars or trackless trolleys will constitute an immediate hazard
during the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection or
junction of roadways; and
   (C)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 72.33) (Ord. 93-57, passed 11-1-1993)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49) (Prior Code, § 72.35)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The legislative authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The legislative authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the legislative authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511) (Prior Code, § 72.38)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491) (Prior Code, § 72.39)
§ 72.060 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
(Prior Code, § 72.40)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.062 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Prior Code, § 72.45)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train or other on-track equipment.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train or other on-track equipment.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
         (g)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other on-track equipment.
         (h)   Approaching on-track equipment is emitting an audible signal or
is plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
      (2)   (a)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a
railroad grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances
described in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the
crossing.
         (b)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not recklessly proceed as long as any of the circumstances
described in division (A)(1)(g) or (A)(1)(h) of this section exist at the
crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (2)   In lieu of a fine or jail term for a violation of this section, a
court may instead order the offender to attend and successfully complete a
remedial safety training or presentation regarding rail safety that is offered
by an authorized and qualified organization that is selected by the court. The
offender shall complete the presentation within a time frame determined by the
court, not to exceed 180 days after the court issues the order. The offender
shall notify the court of the successful completion of the presentation. When
the offender notifies the court of the successful completion of the
presentation, the court shall waive any fine or jail term that it otherwise
would have imposed for a violation of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.62) (Prior Code, § 72.46)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting a material or
materials required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 185,
before crossing at grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle and,
while so stopped, shall listen through an open door or open window and look in
both directions along the track for any approaching train or other on-track
equipment, and for signals indicating the approach of a train or other on-track
equipment, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing and shall
not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63) (Prior Code, § 72.47)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped the
person shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train or other on-track equipment and for signals indicating the
approach of a train or other on-track equipment, and shall proceed only upon
exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagperson or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car or other on-track equipment.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64) (Prior Code, § 72.48)
THROUGH HIGHWAYS
§ 72.090 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Prior Code, § 72.50)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.105 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) (Prior Code, § 72.55)
§ 72.106 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
(Prior Code, § 72.56)
§ 72.107 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
(Prior Code, § 72.57)
§ 72.108 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
(Prior Code, § 72.58)
§ 72.109 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) (Prior Code, § 72.59)
§ 72.110 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
(Prior Code, § 72.60)
§ 72.111 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) (Prior Code, § 72.61)
§ 72.112 PROHIBITION AGAINST PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
(Prior Code, § 72.62)
§ 72.113 ASSEMBLAGES.
   Pedestrians shall not gather and remain in crowds or assemblages at any
place, or move in crowds or assemblages from place to place, upon any highway
or sidewalk, in such numbers and manner as to interfere with ordinary vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.63) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977)
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see §
132.04
§ 72.114 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731, a clinical nurse specialist or certified nurse
practitioner licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4723, or a
chiropractor licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that
states that the child who otherwise would be required to be restrained under
this section has a physical impairment that makes use of a child restraint
system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining device impossible or
impractical, provided that the person operating the vehicle has safely and
appropriately restrained the child in accordance with any recommendations of
the physician, nurse, or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)) (Prior Code, § 72.64)
§ 72.115 PROHIBITION AGAINST DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (B)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (C)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
(Prior Code, § 72.64.1)
§ 72.116 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84) (Prior Code, § 72.64.2)
§ 72.117 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 72.64.3)
§ 72.118 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85) (Prior Code, § 72.64.4)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.119 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 72.64.5)
§ 72.120 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
(Prior Code, § 72.64.6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.121 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.64.7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.122 PROHIBITING OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE USING OR HOLDING AN
ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE; TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, trackless trolley or
streetcar on any street, highway or property open to the public for vehicular
traffic while using, holding or physically supporting with any part of the
person’s body an electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into the device; or
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into the device; or
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into the device; or
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication
device, a minor misdemeanor.
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(1)(b), (C)(1)(c), (C)(1)(d)
and (C)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall impose upon the
offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall impose upon
the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court also may impose a
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (C)(1)(a) to (C)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under division (C)(1)(a) of
this section and the assessment of points under division (C)(4) of this
section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving safety
course, as described in §
70.99 of this Traffic Code and R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends and
successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (C)(1)(b) and (C)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (C)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (D)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor
vehicle, trackless trolley or streetcar for a violation of division (A) of this
section shall inform the operator that the operator may decline a search of the
operator’s electronic wireless communications device. The officer shall not do
any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device; or
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
         (a)   Includes any of the following:
            1.   A wireless telephone;
            2.   A text-messaging device;
            3.   A personal digital assistant;
            4.   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
            5.   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image; or
            6.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or
exchange information or data.
         (b)   An ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a
two-way radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      (2)   VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. Means a feature
or function that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications
device without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate or
initiate the feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
      (3)   UTILITY. Means an entity specified in division R.C. § 4905.03(A),
(C), (D), (E) or (G).
      (4)   UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. Means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
(R.C. § 4511.204) (Prior Code, § 72.64.8)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.123 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205) (Prior Code, § 72.64.9)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.135 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Prior Code, § 72.65)
§ 72.136 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751) (Prior Code, § 72.65.1)
§ 72.137 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I)) (Prior Code, § 72.66)
§ 72.138 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761) (Prior Code, § 72.67)
§ 72.139 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762) (Prior Code, § 72.68)
§ 72.140 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763) (Prior Code, § 72.69)
§ 72.141 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764) (Prior Code, § 72.70)
§ 72.142 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77) (Prior Code, § 72.71)
§ 72.143 FLASHING RED LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771) (Prior Code, § 72.72)
§ 72.144 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772) (Prior Code, § 72.73)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.001   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.002   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.003   Implied consent
   
73.004   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.005   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
Reckless Operation
   
73.020   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.021   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.022   Operator to be in reasonable control
Speed Regulations
   
73.035   Speed limits
   
73.036   Slow speed
   
73.037   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.038   Street racing, stunt driving and street takeovers prohibited
   
73.039   Speed regulations on bridges
Resisting Officer
   
73.050   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.051   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.052   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.065   Exchange of identity and vehicle registration
   
73.066   Accident involving injury to persons or property
   
73.067   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.068   Failure to report accident
Illegal Use of Automobile Keys, Licenses, and Identity
   
73.080   Officer may remove ignition key
   
73.081   Use of unauthorized plates
   
73.082   Operating without license plates
   
73.083   Operating with number of former owner
   
73.084   Resident operating with number issued by foreign state
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.001 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood, oral
fluid, or urine withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined
in R.C. § 2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with
any other relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence
of the defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the presence and concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, urine, oral fluid, or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged
violation as shown by chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three
hours of the time of the alleged violation. The three- hour time limit
specified in this division regarding the admission of evidence does not extend
or affect the two-hour time limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the
maximum period of time during which a person may consent to a chemical test or
tests as described in that section. The court may admit evidence on the
presence and concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse, or a combination of them
as described in this division when a person submits to a blood, breath, urine,
oral fluid, or other bodily substance test at the request of a law enforcement
officer under R.C. § 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or a blood or urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant.
Only a physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-
intermediate, an emergency medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified
technician, chemist, or phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the
purpose of determining the alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the whole blood, blood serum,
or blood plasma. This limitation does not apply to the taking of breath, oral
fluid, or urine specimens. A person authorized to withdraw blood under this
division may refuse to withdraw blood under this division, if in that person’s
opinion, the physical welfare of the person would be endangered by the
withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance withdrawn under this division (D)(1)
(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with methods approved by the Director of
Health by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by the Director
pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under § 73.02, shall state that the person may
have an independent test performed at the person’s expense. The failure or
inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a person shall not preclude
the admission of evidence relating to the chemical test or tests taken at the
request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99(G) or
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, oral fluid, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had one of the
following at the time of the offense:
            1.   A prohibited concentration of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine;
            2.   A drug of abuse or a metabolite of a drug of abuse in the
offender’s oral fluid.
      (9)   A court may warn any person who is convicted of or who pleads
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or an equivalent offense
that a subsequent violation of this section or an equivalent offense that
results in the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy may result in the person being guilty of aggravated vehicular
homicide under R.C. § 2903.06. The court may warn the person of the applicable
penalties for that violation under R.C. §§ 2903.06 and 2929.142.
      (10)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.003 and §
73.004:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
(Prior Code, § 73.01)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.17
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.002 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79) (Prior Code, § 73.02)
§ 73.003 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of
abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath,
oral fluid, or urine if arrested for a violation of § 73.01(A) or (B), § 73.03,
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine for the purpose of
determining the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine. A law enforcement officer who
makes a request pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical
test or tests is not required to advise the person of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required
to give the person the form described in division (C) of this section, but the
officer shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person
refuses to take a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable
means are necessary to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise
the person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of
this section apply to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant
to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of § 73.01(A) or (B), § 73.03, R.C. §
4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall give that
advice in a written form that contains the information described in division
(C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form shall
contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest and read
to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall witness the
arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall certify to
this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the chemical test or
tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer, within two hours of
the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does not submit to the
test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to submit
automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the
following form to the person:
   You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
   If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
   If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of § 73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the person submits to the test or tests and the test results
indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a
metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting
officer shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of § 73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to
submit to a chemical test or tests under this section, and who submits to the
test or tests, regardless of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or
a metabolite of a controlled substance that the test results indicate is
present in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid,
or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D)) (Prior Code, § 73.03)
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.004 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.001(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.001(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.001(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194) (Prior Code, § 73.04)
§ 73.005 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44) (Prior Code, § 73.04.1)
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.020 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20) (Prior Code, § 73.05)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.24
§ 73.021 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201) (Prior Code, § 73.06)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.24
§ 73.022 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202) (Prior Code, § 73.07)
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.035 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or non-profit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a non-profit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
(Prior Code, § 73.10)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.036 SLOW SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Prior Code, § 73.11)
§ 73.037 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Prior Code, § 73.12)
§ 73.038 STREET RACING, STUNT DRIVING AND STREET TAKEOVERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      BURNOUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is kept in a stationary position, but the wheels of the vehicle are
spun, which may cause the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit smoke
from the friction.
      DOUGHNUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
front or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of wheels in a
continuous motion, which may cause a circular skid-mark pattern of rubber on
the driving surface, or the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit
smoke from the friction, or both.
      DRIFTING. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is driven in a manner that causes a controlled, sideways skid during a
turn, with the front wheels pointing in a direction that is the opposite of the
direction of the turn.
      STREET RACING. The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by
side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance each other
or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course, from
the same point to the same point, wherein timing is made of the participating
vehicles involving competitive accelerations or speeds. The operation of two or
more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of prima-facie lawful
speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) to (B)(9) or rapidly accelerating
from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima-facie lawful
speeds shall be prima-facie evidence of street racing.
      STREET TAKEOVER. Blocking or impeding the regular flow of vehicle or
pedestrian traffic on a public road, street, or highway or on private property
that is open to the general public for the purpose of street racing or stunt
driving.
      STUNT DRIVING. Performing or engaging in burnouts, doughnuts, drifting,
or wheelies, or allowing a passenger to ride either partially or fully outside
of the vehicle while operating that vehicle.
      WHEELIE. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the front
wheel or wheels of the vehicle are raised off of the ground or whereby two
wheels that are on the same side of the vehicle are raised off of the ground.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly participate in street racing, stunt driving,
or street takeover upon any public road, street, or highway, or on private
property that is open to the general public.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to
any other sanctions, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for not less than 30 days or more
than three years. No judge shall suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of
an offender’s license, permit, or privilege imposed under this division.
   (D)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles
on public or private property when the political subdivision with jurisdiction
of the location or owner of the property knowingly permits such operation
thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Prior Code, § 73.13)
§ 73.039 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Prior Code, § 73.14)
RESISTING OFFICER
§ 73.050 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36) (Prior Code, § 73.15)
§ 73.051 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
(Prior Code, § 73.16)
§ 73.052 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
(Prior Code, § 73.17)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.065 EXCHANGE OF IDENTITY AND VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Prior Code, § 73.20)
§ 73.066 ACCIDENT INVOLVING INJURY TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) (Prior Code, § 73.21)
§ 73.067 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Prior Code, § 73.22)
§ 73.068 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74) (Prior Code, § 73.23)
ILLEGAL USE OF AUTOMOBILE KEYS, LICENSES, AND IDENTITY
§ 73.080 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05) (Prior Code, § 73.26)
§ 73.081 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) (Prior Code, § 73.27)
§ 73.082 OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10) (Prior Code, § 73.28)
§ 73.083 OPERATING WITH NUMBER OF FORMER OWNER.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operation
of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark issued to
another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
(Prior Code, § 73.29)
§ 73.084 RESIDENT OPERATING WITH NUMBER ISSUED BY FOREIGN STATE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
(Prior Code, § 73.30)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender and backup lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Occupant restraining devices
   
74.39   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.40   Air bags
Loads
   
74.55   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.56   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.57   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.58   Load limits
   
74.59   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.60   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.61   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.62   Maximum width, height and length
   
74.63   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.64   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.65   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.66   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
74.67   Truck traffic
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) (Prior Code, § 74.01)
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021) (Prior Code, § 74.02)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) (Prior Code, § 74.03)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Prior Code, § 74.04)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Prior Code, § 74.05)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Prior Code, § 74.06)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Prior Code, § 74.07)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071) (Prior Code, § 74.08)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08) (Prior Code, § 74.09)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Prior Code, § 74.10)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.11)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi- wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
(Prior Code, § 74.12)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Prior Code, § 74.13)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER AND BACKUP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Prior Code, § 74.14)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Prior Code, § 74.15)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Prior Code, § 74.16)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Prior Code, § 74.17)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
(Prior Code, § 74.18)
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18) (Prior Code, § 74.19)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181) (Prior Code, § 74.20)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.21)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Prior Code, § 74.22)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.23)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.24)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.25)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Prior Code, § 74.26)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Prior Code, § 74.27)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Prior Code, § 74.28)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Prior Code, § 74.29)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.30)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency when the motor vehicle is used by the law enforcement
agency for a purpose within the scope of the law enforcement agency’s duties.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
(Prior Code, § 74.31)
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261) (Prior Code, § 74.32)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262) (Prior Code, § 74.33)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.34)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28) (Prior Code, § 74.35)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.36)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 74.37)
§ 74.38 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Prior Code, § 74.38)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.114
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.144
§ 74.39 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
(Prior Code, § 74.39)
§ 74.40 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
(Prior Code, § 74.40)
LOADS
§ 74.55 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.55)
§ 74.56 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.56)
§ 74.57 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
(Prior Code, § 74.57)
§ 74.58 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3.5                    450
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.66(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 74.58)
§ 74.59 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 74.59)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.60 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self- contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33) (Prior Code, § 74.60)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.61 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 74.61)
§ 74.62 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 74.62)
§ 74.63 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
(Prior Code, § 74.63)
§ 74.64 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 74.64)
§ 74.65 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12) (Prior Code, § 74.65)
§ 74.66 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery
may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross vehicle weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
(Prior Code, § 74.66)
§ 74.67 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The section of Shawnee Run Road situated between Kenwood Road and
Camargo Road (hereinafter, the “restricted section”) shall be classified such
that vehicles with more than two axles shall be prohibited from operating or
traveling upon the restricted section, unless said vehicle is a service vehicle
or is making a local delivery.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby directed to erect the necessary and proper
signs to adequately post this restriction at the appropriate locations.
   (C)   The foregoing restriction shall be enforced as soon as the necessary
legal notice has been provided and the necessary and proper signs are posted.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, SNOWMOBILES AND ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.06   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.07   Helmets required
   
75.08   Electric bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.20   Definitions
   
75.21   Equipment
   
75.22   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.23   Permitted operation
   
75.24   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.25   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.26   Accident reports
   
75.27   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.28   Local control within police power
   
75.29   Registration of vehicles
   
75.30   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.052
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52) (Prior Code, § 75.01)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521) (Prior Code, § 75.02)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
(Prior Code, § 75.03)
§ 75.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Prior Code, § 75.04)
§ 75.05 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Prior Code, § 75.05)
§ 75.06 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56) (Prior Code, § 75.06)
§ 75.07 HELMETS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, or any person in loco parentis to
allow a child 16 years of age or younger to operate a bicycle, skate boards,
roller skates or blades, scooters or similarly wheeled device within the city
unless such person is wearing a protective helmet on his or her head, with the
chin strap fastened under the chin. Such helmet shall be appropriately fitted
to the size of the operator and shall meet or exceed the standards set by ANSI
(American National Standards Institute) or SNELL (Snell Memorial Foundation).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or person in loco parentis to
allow a child 16 years of age or younger to be a passenger on a bicycle within
the city unless such child is wearing a protective helmet on his or her head,
with the chin strap fastened under the chin. Such helmet shall be appropriately
fitted to the size of the operator, and shall meet or exceed the standards set
by ANSI or SNELL. This requirement shall also apply to a child who rides upon a
bicycle while in a restraining seat which is attached to the bicycle, or in a
trailer towed by the bicycle.
   (C)   This section shall not be applicable to the operation of a bicycle,
skate boards, roller blades, scooters or similarly wheeled device on private
residential property but shall be applicable to all public rights-of-way and
public areas. For purposes of this section, PUBLIC AREAS shall mean those which
are open to the public, including parking areas and sidewalks on retail and
office property and all areas owned by a political subdivision, including
parks. However, this regulation shall not be construed to permit the operation
of a bicycle, skate boards, roller blades, scooters or similarly wheeled device
in any area in which it is otherwise prohibited or regulated.
   (D)   Penalties:
      (1)   First offense. A written warning shall be served upon the violator
and the parent or person in loco parentis, with applicable information attached
advising of the dangers of failure to wear protective helmet. The warning will
be signed by the parent or person in loco parentis of the minor, and a copy
filed at the Police Department. Such person shall be informed that an approved
helmet must be obtained for the child and worn by the child whenever he or she
is riding a bicycle.
      (2)   Second offense. A citation shall be issued to the parent, or person
in loco parentis, for any offense which occurs subsequent to a written warning.
This violation shall be punishable by a fine, including all costs, of not more
than $25. However, the case may be dismissed upon the parent or person in loco
parentis and the child demonstrating evidence of the ownership and possession
of an approved helmet.
      (3)   Third and subsequent offenses. A citation shall be issued to the
parent or person in loco parentis of the violator, with a fine not to exceed
$75. However, the fine shall be reduced to $25 if the parent or person in loco
parentis and the child demonstrate evidence of the ownership and possession of
an approved helmet and proof of attending a bicycle safety course approved by
the Madeira Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 75.07) (Ord. 02-17, passed 5-29-2002)
§ 75.08 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01) (Prior Code, § 75.20)
§ 75.21 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
(Prior Code, § 75.21)
§ 75.22 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right- of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40) (Prior Code, § 75.22)
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.052
§ 75.23 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41) (Prior Code, § 75.23)
§ 75.24 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44) (Prior Code, § 75.24)
§ 75.25 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45) (Prior Code, § 75.25)
§ 75.26 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46) (Prior Code, § 75.26)
§ 75.27 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47) (Prior Code, § 75.27)
§ 75.28 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48) (Prior Code, § 75.28)
§ 75.29 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose
vehicle is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a
resident of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519
shall comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02) (Prior Code, § 75.29)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.30 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66) (Prior Code, § 75.30)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Truck parking and traffic
   
76.07   Prohibition against parking or leaving an inoperative vehicle
   
76.08   Prohibition against parking in fire lanes on private property devoted
to public use
   
76.09   Snow emergency
   
76.10   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.11   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.12   Truck loading zones
   
76.13   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.14   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.15   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.16   Waiver
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.16
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Prior Code, § 76.01)
   (C)   No person shall repair or maintain a motor vehicle within the limits
of a public street or freeway, unless for the purpose of changing tires.
Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle under repair or maintenance upon a
public street or freeway such officer may request removal from the public way
to a garage or other place of safety or may allow repair if the officer feels
in his or her judgment the repair or maintenance is of a nature as may quickly
be completed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 89-12, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) (Prior Code, § 76.02)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67) (Prior Code, § 76.03)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except a bicycle;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway;
(R.C. § 4511.68(A))
      (17)   On a bicycle path; or
      (18)   On a bridle path.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low- speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
(Prior Code, § 76.04)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or non-profit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Prior Code, § 76.05)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.16
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 TRUCK PARKING AND TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Except where necessary in a pickup at, a delivery to or a service call
at premises abutting a street other than Miami Avenue, Camargo Road, Euclid
Avenue, Shawnee Run Road or Dawson Road, or where necessary in traveling to and
from business and industrial zones, it shall be unlawful for the driver of any
commercial vehicle to operate the same upon such portion of any such other
street in the city as lies within any residence district.
   (B)   The parking of a commercial vehicle on any street within a residential
zoning district shall be prohibited between the hours of 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
or at any time during any national holiday or any Sunday. This regulation shall
not be interpreted to apply to commercial vehicles used for conveying the
necessary tools and materials to premises where labor, using such tools and
materials, is to be performed during the time of parking such vehicles, or to
commercial vehicles in the process of temporarily loading or unloading
deliverable goods.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any vehicle while in use by the city,
public utility, cable company or any other governmental entity.
   (D)   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE means:
      (1)   Any vehicle, no matter what its gross vehicle weight, used or
designed to be used for business or commercial purposes and which, in addition,
negatively infringes upon the residential character of a residential district.
These vehicles include but are not limited to a bus, cement truck, panel truck,
semi-tractor, semi-trailer or any other non-recreational trailer used for
commercial purposes, stake bed truck, step van, tank truck, tar truck, dump
truck; or
      (2)   Any vehicle that is designed or rated by the manufacturer for more
than 8,800 pounds of gross vehicle weight and is licensed by the State Bureau
of Motor Vehicles as either a truck or a commercial vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 76.06) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977; Ord. 03-26, passed 4-10-
2004)
§ 76.07 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING OR LEAVING AN INOPERATIVE VEHICLE.
   No person shall in any event park an inoperative vehicle or leave any such
vehicle standing on any street continuously for more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 76.07) (Ord. 1313, passed 10-17-1977)
§ 76.08 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING IN FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY DEVOTED
TO PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   On private property devoted to public use, when parking of motor
vehicles may interfere with the ingress or egress of Fire or Police Department
emergency equipment for the protection and safety of persons and property, the
City Manager has the authority to designate fire lanes on private property
devoted to public use for the purpose of providing access for Police and Fire
Department emergency equipment, and shall cause to be erected signs stating:
      NO PARKING
      FIRE LANE
   (B)   Fire lanes referred to in Section F.M. 3-09 of the Ohio Fire Code are
established at such places as indicated on a map dated January 5, 1978, on file
in the office of the City Manager, as the same may be revised from time to
time, which map is incorporated into this code as if fully reproduced herein.
   (C)   Parking or standing of motor vehicles within the designated fire lanes
is prohibited at all times, provided further that when a police officer finds a
vehicle parked within the fire lane, thereby constituting a possible threat to
the safety and protection of persons or property, he or she may cause the
removal of the vehicle. The owner of the vehicle shall pay any cost involved
with respect to the removal of the vehicle and any storage charges.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $25, and a sum equal to the cost of the removal and storage of the
vehicle, as set forth in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 76.08) (Ord. 1325, passed 1-23-1978)
§ 76.09 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   SNOW EMERGENCY means a period of time declared by the City Manager, or
designee, when the United States Weather Bureau forecasts three inches or more
of snow in any given storm and there is the prospect of additional snow, or
when ice and/or snow has accumulated to the extent that it is impairing the
safe movement of vehicular traffic within the city. Special parking
restrictions become effective when these weather conditions exist and a snow
emergency is declared. The snow emergency shall exist from the time it is
formally announced until the time it is formally canceled.
   (B)   Whenever a snow emergency is declared, the City Manager, or designee,
shall request the local news media to announce the snow emergency and the time
of the declaration, and/or notice of declaration shall be provided through the
city’s emergency notification network. Owners and operators of motor vehicles
shall be deemed to have notice of the snow emergency two hours after the
official announcement and are then subject to the prohibitions of this section.
Cancellation shall be effected in the same manner. A snow emergency is
automatically declared whenever the City of Cincinnati issues a snow emergency.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a snow emergency is in effect, no person shall park,
abandon or leave unattended any motor vehicle on a public street in the city.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle found stopped in a prohibited area during a snow
emergency may be removed by order of the police.
   (D)   The owner or operator of a motor vehicle found in violation of the
prohibitions of this section shall be deemed to have committed a minor
misdemeanor parking infraction, and in addition to any fine which may be
imposed, the owner or operator of a motor vehicle found in violation of this
section shall be responsible for all towing and storage costs for such vehicle
during the snow emergency.
   (E)   The City Manager shall have the authority to waive these regulations
for good cause. GOOD CAUSE shall include but not be limited to lack of
driveway, needed emergency repairs that prevent the relocation of the vehicle,
or owner of vehicle is out of town during the snow event. The City Manager
shall make the final determination regarding the waiver on a case-by-case
basis. However, nothing herein shall require the City Manager to waive these
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 76.09) (Ord. 05-04, passed 12-12-2005)
§ 76.10 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681) (Prior Code, § 76.10)
§ 76.11 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 76.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.12 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 76.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.13 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 76.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.14 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 76.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.15 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 76.15)
§ 76.16 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
(Prior Code, § 76.16)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
92.   JUNK; RUBBISH; LITTERING; WEEDS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   CITY PARKS
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   WATERS AND WATERCOURSES
      
97.   INCOME TAX
      
98.   ADMISSIONS TAX
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Running at large prohibited
   
90.02   Prohibiting dogs from running at large
   
90.03   Animals or fowl damaging gardens and lawns
   
90.04   Peace disturbances
   
90.05   Reporting escape of certain animals required
   
90.06   Dangerous dogs and animal control
   
90.07   Dangerous wild animals and certain restricted snakes
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person owning, keeping or harboring any domestic animal of any kind,
shall permit the same to run at large or be unattended off the premises of the
person in the city at any time, whether or not the running at large or being
unattended is the result of escape from confinement.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 1599, passed 8-30-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 PROHIBITING DOGS FROM RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall permit such dog to go
beyond the premises of such owner, keeper or harborer unless such dog is
properly on a leash or under the control of the owner, keeper or harborer.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a dog is not under the required
control if such dog chases, injures or kills any person or domestic animal, or
damages or commits any nuisance, including defecation, upon property other than
that of its owner, keeper or harborer.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section CONTROL means that the dog is within
sight and hearing, and will respond instantly to a call or order; or that the
dog is in a conveyance for travel, such as an automobile or train, or is
confined to a travel crate or carrying case.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 1599, passed 8-30-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMALS OR FOWL DAMAGING GARDENS AND LAWNS.
   No person owning or harboring one or more cats, dogs, other animals or fowl
shall permit such cats, dogs, other animals or fowl to run at large so as to do
damage to gardens, lawns, shrubbery or other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 1599, passed 8-30-1982; Ord. 10-15, passed 8-23-
2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 PEACE DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any animal shall negligently permit or
allow such animal to disturb unreasonably, the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood in which the animal is kept by frequent or continuing barking,
howling, yelping or making any other animal noise.
   (B)   As used in this section, NEGLIGENTLY has the same meaning as defined
in §
130.08(D) of the code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 1599, passed 8-30-1982; Ord. 95-65, passed 9-18-
1995) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 REPORTING ESCAPE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake escapes, the person
that possesses the animal or snake immediately shall notify both of the
following:
      (1)   The sheriff of the county and the chief law enforcement officer of
the township or municipal corporation where the escape occurred;
      (2)   The division of animal health in the department of agriculture by
means of the 24-hour telephone number that is maintained by the division.
   (B)   (1)   A law enforcement officer or natural resources law enforcement
officer may destroy a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake that has
escaped and that poses a threat to public safety.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer or natural resources law enforcement
officer that destroys an escaped dangerous wild animal or restricted snake
pursuant to division (B)(1) of this section is not liable for damages in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises from the destruction of the animal or snake.
   (C)   The person that possesses a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake
that escapes is responsible for all reasonable costs associated with the
capture or destruction of the animal or snake. The person shall reimburse the
political subdivision that employs the law enforcement officer who captured or
destroyed the dangerous wild animal or restricted snake for the costs incurred
in capturing or destroying the animal or snake. However, if the law enforcement
officer is a state highway patrol trooper or if a natural resources law
enforcement officer captured or destroyed the dangerous wild animal or
restricted snake, the person shall reimburse the state highway patrol or
department of natural resources, as applicable, for those costs.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, money
collected under division (C) of this section shall be credited to a special
fund, which is hereby created in the applicable political subdivision. Money in
the special fund shall be used exclusively for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and rules.
      (2)   Money collected under division (C) of this section for costs
incurred by a state highway patrol trooper or a natural resources law
enforcement officer under this section shall be deposited in the state treasury
to the credit of the dangerous and restricted animal fund created in R.C. §
935.25.
      (3)   If law enforcement officers from more than one jurisdiction assist
in the capture or destruction of a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake,
the money collected shall be proportionally distributed to each political
subdivision’s special fund and the dangerous and restricted animal fund, if
applicable.
(R.C. § 935.16) (Prior Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 DANGEROUS DOGS AND ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this regulation to reduce the potential harm
to persons and property that may be caused by dogs and other animals. It is the
intent of this regulation to identify dogs that are not properly trained to
respect persons and property or which exhibit inappropriately aggressive
behaviors. Such dogs, once identified, must be controlled in a way that
reasonably protects persons and properties.
      (2)   It is the further purpose of this regulation to provide sufficient
penalties for persons who fail to control their animals as required, and
additional penalties if any animal causes property damage or personal injury
without reasonable justification.
      (3)   Finally, it is desired that all animals be kept and treated in a
humane manner, but the destruction of property or to cause injury to persons by
any animal that is not engaged in law enforcement or protection of its owner or
home shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY MANAGER. The person appointed by the City Council in accordance with
the City Charter. For purposes of this chapter, it is the person who is to
review the correctness of the DCS’s determination that a dog should be
designated as potentially dangerous.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has been found to have been engaged in any of
the behaviors specified in division (C)(2) of this section.
      DOG. Includes both domestic breeds of dogs and wolf-dog hybrids. A wolf-
hybrid shall be deemed to be a DOG for all purposes of this section.
      DOG AT LARGE. Any dog:
         (a)   On private property without the permission of the owner or
person entitled to possession and not in a kennel or restrained by a physical
control device and under the control of a capable person; or
         (b)   On public property and not in a kennel or restrained by a
physical control device which is under the control of a capable person.
      DOG CONTROL SPECIALIST (DCS). A person appointed by the City Manger to
act under this section.
      EUTHANIZED. Put to death in a humane manner by a licensed veterinarian or
certified euthanasia technician.
      KENNEL. An enclosure of sound structural strength in good repair capable
of containing the dog enclosed and preventing the entrance of other animals.
      OWNER. Any person having a possessory property right in a dog or who
harbors, cares for, exercises control over or knowingly permits a dog to remain
on premises occupied by that person.
      PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or
corporation.
      PHYSICAL CONTROL DEVICE. A sufficiently strong collar connected to a
leash or tether made of chain links, or other material that is suitably strong,
so as to prevent the escape of a dog by the breaking of the device.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that the DCS has determined to be so
designated after the DCS has considered its behavior based on factors set forth
in division (C)(1) of this section.
      SERIOUS INJURY. Any physical injury that results in a broken bone or
which requires stitches or which causes a disfiguring laceration or cosmetic
surgery.
   (C)   Classification of levels of dangerousness. The DCS shall make the
determination of whether a dog should be designated as a potentially dangerous
dog.
      (1)   A dog shall be classified as potentially dangerous based upon
specific behaviors exhibited by the dog, including but not limited to the
following:
         (a)   It is at large and menaces, chases, aggressively bites, causes
physical injury, displays threatening or aggressive behavior or otherwise
threatens or endangers safety of any person or domestic animal;
         (b)   While off the property of the owner, and on a physical control
device, it menaces, chases, aggressively bites, causes physical injury,
displays threatening or aggressive behavior or otherwise threatens or endangers
the safety of any person or domestic animal;
         (c)   While in or on a motor vehicle and not physically restrained or
otherwise physically prevented from reaching any area outside the perimeter of
the vehicle, it menaces, aggressively bites, causes physical injury, displays
threatening or aggressive behavior or otherwise threatens or endangers the
safety of any person or domestic animals;
         (d)   When the dog is outside but on its own property, it barks in an
aggressive fashion at most persons on nearby property or in the right-of-way;
         (e)   The dog is aggressive toward most other dogs that are not kept
in the same household;
         (f)   The dog exhibits stalking behaviors;
         (g)   The dog and owner have not attended dog obedience classes and
has not been certified that it exhibits acceptable social behavior;
         (h)   The dog has gone off-premises to attack another dog or some
other domestic animal, or a person without provocation. The DCS need not
actually witness this behavior, but may consider reports by victims or
witnesses; and
         (i)   The dog does not cease its aggressive behavior upon voice
command of its owner.
      (2)   Subject to division (C)(3)(c) of this section, a dog shall be
classified as a dangerous dog if:
         (a)   It causes the serious injury or death of any person;
         (b)   It is at large and kills any domestic animal;
         (c)   It is off the property of the owner but on a physical control
device and kills any domestic animal; or
         (d)   It has previously been classified as a potentially dangerous dog
because it aggressively bit or caused physical injury to any person, the owner
has received notice of such classification and the dog again aggressively bites
or causes physical injury to any person.
      (3)   The DCS shall have the authority to refrain from classifying a dog
as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, even if the dog has engaged in
the behaviors specified in divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(c) of this
section, if the DCS determines that the behavior was caused by abuse or torment
of the dog or other provocation, including but not limited to the following
factors or aggressive behaviors:
         (a)   The dog or animal was protecting or defending a person within
the immediate vicinity of the dog or animal from an attack or assault;
         (b)   At the time the person was committing a crime or offense upon
the property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
         (c)   The person attacked by the dog was teasing, tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog or animal, or in the recent past has teased, tormented,
abused or assaulted the dog or animal;
         (d)   The dog or animal was attacked or menaced by an animal, or the
domestic animal was on the property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
         (e)   The dog was responding to pain or injury, or protecting itself,
its owner’s property or its offspring; or
         (f)   The person or animal was disturbing the dog or animal’s natural
function such as sleeping or eating.
      (4)   The breed of the dog, by itself, shall not be a reason to classify
a dog as dangerous or potentially dangerous.
      (5)   No dog shall be found to be dangerous or potentially dangerous if
it is a dog trained for law enforcement purposes and is on duty under the
control of a law enforcement officer at the time it exhibits behavior under
divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(c) of this section.
   (D)   Identification and determination; administrative review of dog
behavior.
      (1)   Persons who observe a dog behaving in an aggressive manner, which
occurs without provocation and under circumstances that could lead to property
damage or personal injury caused by that dog, may report the matter to the city
administration or Police Department. Upon receiving such report, the Dog
Control Specialist shall be notified and shall investigate the matter.
      (2)   The DCS shall attempt to either view the property where the dog is
kept or contact the owner to make an appointment to evaluate the dog’s
behavior. The DCS may request the evaluation to take place at a neutral site
other than the home in order to reduce the natural tendency of a dog to protect
the home and owners. If there is reasonable cause to believe that a dog is a
threat to persons or property, but, after reasonable efforts, the DCS is unable
to get the owner’s cooperation to evaluate the dog, the DCS may seek an
administrative search warrant.
      (3)   The DCS shall have authority to determine whether any dog has
engaged in the behaviors specified in divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(c) of
this section. The determination shall be based upon an investigation that
includes observation of the dog’s behavior by DCS or by other witnesses who
personally observed the behavior, and who sign a written statement attesting to
the observed behavior and agree to provide testimony regarding the dog’s
behavior if called upon to do so.
   (E)   Notice; appeal of findings. The DCS shall give the dog’s owner written
notice by regular mail or personal service. The notice shall include the
behavior of the dog on which the DCS relies in making the determination of the
dog’s classification as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog and of the
additional restrictions applicable to that dog by reason of its classification.
If the owner denies that the behavior in question occurred, the owner may
appeal the DCS’s decision to the City Manager by filing with the City Manager,
within ten business days of the date the notice was mailed to the owner by
regular mail or the owner was personally served, a written request for a
hearing.
   (F)   Hearing. The City Manager shall hold a hearing within a reasonable
period of time (not later than 30 days) on any appeal from the DCS’s decision
to classify a dog as dangerous or potentially dangerous. The owner, the DCS and
any other person having relevant evidence concerning the dog’s behavior as
specified in this section shall be allowed to present testimony. The City
Manager shall determine whether behavior specified in this section was
exhibited by the dog in question. The City Manager shall issue an order
containing his or her determination, which shall be final.
   (G)   Notice; compliance required. Once the owner has received notice of the
dog’s classification pursuant to this section, the owner shall comply with the
restrictions specified in the notice until such time as the DCS’s decision is
reversed on appeal. Failure to comply with the specified restrictions pending
the completion of all appeals shall be a violation of this section for which a
fine can be imposed.
   (H)   Impoundment. If the Director finds that a dog is a dangerous dog, the
dog shall be impounded pending the completion of all appeals. If there is no
appeal, or if the DCS’s decision is upheld on appeal, the dog’s owner shall be
liable for the cost of the dog’s impoundment.
   (I)   Regulation of potentially dangerous dogs. The DCS, upon determining
the dog is a potentially dangerous dog, shall order that the owner comply with
those requirements to reduce the risk of future harm. The DCS shall identify
those requirements that are appropriate from the following list:
      (1)   Physically restrain the dog to prevent it from interfering with the
public’s legal access to the owner’s property or from reaching any public
sidewalk or road or adjoining property;
      (2)   Fasten to a collar and keep on the dog at all times a suitable
distinctive tag issued by the DCS identifying the dog as a potentially
dangerous dog;
      (3)   Pay an annual fee of $25 at the time the DCS issues the tag
described in division (I)(2) of this section and a like fee each year
thereafter, so long as the dog is alive. This fee shall be in addition to any
other required license fee;
      (4)   Notify the DCS by mail of any change of ownership or where the new
location of the dog is within ten days of the change;
      (5)   The requirements of this section shall apply to any person who is
transferred ownership or who keeps a potentially dangerous dog within the city;
      (6)   Outdoors and unattended, the dog or animal must be kept within a
locked, physically (not electronic, underground or invisible) fenced area, from
which it cannot escape, completely within the back yard of the property;
      (7)   When outdoors the dog or animal must be attended and kept within a
physically (not electronic, underground or invisible) fenced area, from which
it cannot escape, completely within the back yard of the property;
      (8)   When outdoors, the dog or animal must be attended and kept on a
leash no longer than six feet and under the control of a person 18 years of age
or older;
      (9)   When outdoors the dog or animal must be attended and muzzled. Such
muzzle shall not cause injury to the dog or animal or interfere with its vision
or respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal;
      (10)   Outdoors and unattended, the dog or animal must be confined to an
enclosed, escape-proof kennel of the following description:
         (a)   Such kennel shall allow the dog or animal to stand normally and
without restriction, and shall be at least three times the length of the dog or
animal, and shall protect the dog or animal from the elements;
         (b)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of
more than two inches, and in the case of wooden fences, the gaps shall not be
more than two inches;
         (c)   Any gates within such kennel shall be lockable and of such
design as to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal, and
when the dog or animal is confined to such kennel and unattended, such lock
shall be kept locked; and
         (d)   The kennel may be required to have double exterior walls to
prevent the insertion of fingers, hands or other objects.
      (11)   Placement of a sign or signs in places directed by the judge
advising the public of the presence and tendencies of stipulated animal;
      (12)   Attendance by the dog or animal and its owner/custodian at
training sessions conducted by a certified applied animal behaviorist, board
certified veterinary behaviorist or other recognized expert in the field and
completion of training or any other treatment as deemed appropriate by such
expert. The owners of the dog or animal shall be responsible for all costs
associated with the evaluation and training ordered under this section;
      (13)   Procurement of liability insurance in an amount to be determined
by the judge, but in no case in an amount of less than $100,000, covering the
medical and/or veterinary costs resulting from future actions of the dog or
animal;
      (14)   Neutering or spaying of the dog or animal at the owner’s expense
unless medically contradicted;
      (15)   If further incident of attack occurs under such circumstance that
the dog or animal, after a hearing as described above, is determined to be a
dangerous dog or animal, the DCS may impose or re-impose any applicable
directives listed above; additionally, humane destruction of the dog or animal
may be ordered; and
      (16)   Remove the dog or animal in question from cohabiting with other
dogs or animals in the same household.
   (J)   Rehabilitation and withdrawal of determination. An owner of a
potentially dangerous dog may request the DCS to re-evaluate the dog if the
owner and the dog have attended obedience training classes and believes that
the dog’s aggressive behaviors have been sufficiently modified. If, after
evaluation, the DCS determines that the dog need not be designated as a
dangerous dog, the DCS shall notify the owner and withdraw the dog’s
designation as potentially dangerous.
   (K)   Euthanization. Any dog that has been found to be a dangerous dog
should be euthanized. If such dog is euthanized by a licensed veterinarian, the
dog owner shall have delivered to the Director a certification by the
veterinarian that the dog has been euthanized.
   (L)   Liabilities. An owner of a dog shall be liable for violations of this
section if:
      (1)   The dog engages in any of the behaviors of a dangerous dog
specified in division (C)(2) of this section;
      (2)   The owner fails to comply with the requirements applicable to a
potentially dangerous dog; and
      (3)   The dog bites or causes other physical injuries to a person off the
owner’s premises. However, it shall be an affirmative defense if one or more of
the factors described in division (C)(3) of this section existed at the time or
immediately prior to the dog’s biting or causing the physical injuries.
   (M)   Other animals; control. No person shall own or harbor any animal,
other than a dog, and permit it to leave the premises where it is harbored
unless it is caged, leashed or is ridden by a person who is capable of
controlling the animal. A violation of this division (M) shall be presumed if
such an animal causes damage to property or injury to persons while it is off
the premises where it is harbored.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 03-24, passed 3-22-2004; Ord. 10-15, passed 8-23-
2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS AND CERTAIN RESTRICTED SNAKES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS WILD ANIMAL.
         (a)   Means any of the following, including hybrids unless otherwise
specified:
            1.   Hyenas;
            2.   Gray wolves, excluding hybrids;
            3.   Lions;
            4.   Tigers;
            5.    Jaguars;
            6.   Leopards, including clouded leopards, Sunda clouded leopards
and snow leopards;
            7.   All of the following, including hybrids with domestic cats
unless otherwise specified:
               a.   Cheetahs;
               b.   Lynxes, including Canadian lynxes, Eurasian lynxes and
Iberian lynxes;
               c.   Cougars, also known as pumas or mountain lions;
               d.   Caracals; and
               e.   Servals, excluding hybrids with domestic cats commonly
known as savannah cats.
            8.   Bears;
            9.   Elephants;
            10.   Rhinoceroses;
            11.   Hippopotamuses;
            12.   Cape buffaloes;
            13.   African wild dogs;
            14.   Komodo dragons;
            15.   Alligators;
            16.   Crocodiles;
            17.   Caimans, excluding dwarf caimans;
            18.   Gharials;
            19.   Nonhuman primates other than lemurs and the nonhuman primates
specified in division (a)20. of this definition; and
            20.   All of the following nonhuman primates:
               a.   Golden lion, black-faced lion, golden-rumped lion, cotton-
top, emperor, saddlebacked, black-mantled and Geoffroy’s tamarins;
               b.   Southern and northern night monkeys;
               c.   Dusky titi and masked titi monkeys;
               d.   Muriquis;
               e.   Goeldi’s monkeys;
               f.   White-faced, black-bearded, white-nose bearded and monk
sakis;
               g.   Bald and black uakaris;
               h.   Black-handed, white-bellied, brown-headed and black spider
monkeys;
               i.   Common woolly monkeys; and
               j.   Red, black and mantled howler monkeys.
         (b)   DANGEROUS WILD ANIMAL does not include a domesticated animal
that is considered livestock as defined in R.C. § 901.70.
      RESTRICTED SNAKE. Means any of the following:
            1.   All of the following constricting snakes that are 12 feet or
longer:
               a.   Green anacondas;
               b.   Yellow anacondas;
               c.   Reticulated pythons;
               d.   Indian pythons;
               e.   Burmese pythons;
               f.   North African rock pythons;
               g.   South African rock pythons; and
               h.   Amethystine pythons.
            2.   Species of the following families:
               a.   Atractaspididae;
               b.   Elapidae; and
               c.   Viperidae.
            3.   Boomslang snakes; and
            4.   Twig snakes.
(R.C. § 935.01)
   (B)   After the effective date of this section, any individual possessing
and/or maintaining a dangerous wild animal and/or restricted snake on any
property within the city’s corporate boundaries shall be required to register
such animal with the City Police Chief, on a form prescribed by the city (which
form shall be made available upon request).
   (C)   Any individual possessing a venomous restricted snake on any property
within the city’s corporate boundaries shall be required to maintain unexpired
antivenin for each species of venomous restricted snake the individual
possesses at the premises on which the restricted snake is harbored.
   (D)   Any individual traveling with a venomous restricted snake in the
individual’s possession within the city’s corporate boundaries shall be
required to maintain on the individual’s person (or in the vehicle within which
the restricted snake is transported) unexpired antivenin for each species of
venomous restricted snake the individual has in his or her possession.
   (E)   If the owner and/or caretaker of a dangerous wild animal or restricted
snake becomes aware the animal has escaped from its confined habitat, the owner
and/or caretaker shall immediately notify the City Police Chief of the escape
and fully cooperate with the city’s efforts to locate the animal and neutralize
the threat to the public.
   (F)   This section shall not be interpreted as conflicting with any
regulation or requirement with respect to the possession and maintenance of a
dangerous wild animal or restricted snake set forth in the Ohio Revised Code,
including, but not limited to, R.C. Chapter 935.
(Ord. 22-04, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
   (B)   Violation of §
90.04 is punishable by a fine of up to $100 for each day during which the
offense is proven to have occurred.
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of violation of §
90.06 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500, except that any owner
of a dangerous dog shall be subject to a fine of not less than $200 and not
more than $500. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (2)   A person convicted of a violation of §
90.06(M) shall be subject to a fine of up to $150 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 1599, passed 8-30-1982; Ord. 95-65, passed 9-18-
1995; Ord. 03-24, passed 3-22-2004)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.01   Unified Fire Code of Hamilton County adopted
   
91.02   City Bureau of Fire Prevention established
   
91.03   Interpretation of certain terms in Code
   
91.04   Storage of flammable or combustible liquids
   
91.05   Conflict with zoning laws or other ordinances
   
91.06   Modifications of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.07   New materials and processes; permits
Burning Regulations
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Relations to other prohibitions
   
91.22   Open burning in the municipality
Miscellaneous
   
91.35   Smoking in bed prohibited; discarding cigarettes
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire hydrant requirements in subdivisions, see §
151.089
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.01 UNIFIED FIRE CODE OF HAMILTON COUNTY ADOPTED.
   The Unified Fire Code of Hamilton County, as it may be amended from time to
time, is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein and
fully and completely established as the Fire Prevention Code of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 1526, passed 6-15-1981; Ord. 88-34, passed 6-6-
1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 CITY BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the City Bureau of
Fire Prevention, which Bureau is established and shall be operated under the
supervision of the City Manager.
      (2)   The City Manager shall be the Chief of the Bureau.
   (B)   During such periods as the Madeira and Indian Hill Joint Fire District
is in operation and is under contract with the city to provide fire protection
services to the city, the City Manager shall delegate enforcement of the code
to the Joint Fire District, acting by and through the Chief, employees and
appointees of the Joint Fire District, and such persons shall serve as
Inspectors of the Bureau.
   (C)   During such periods as the Joint Fire District is not in operation,
the City Manager may detail members of the staff of the City Building
Inspection Department to serve as Inspectors of the Bureau as he or she may see
fit, and as shall from time to time be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 88-34, passed 6-6-
1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   City Manager, see §
31.03
   Specific contracts with Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District, see
TSO IV
§ 91.03 INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN TERMS IN CODE.
   Wherever the terms CHIEF OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT or CORPORATION COUNSEL are
used in the Code, they shall be held to mean the Chief of the Bureau and the
Law Director of the city, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 91.04 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   Storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks, of
explosives and of blasting agents is prohibited, and the bulk storage of
liquefied petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of all areas within
the city.
   (B)   New bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CONFLICT WITH ZONING LAWS OR OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Provisions of the Fire Prevention Code relating to uses prohibited by the
zoning laws or other ordinances of the city shall not be construed as
permitting such uses.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code, see
Ch. 150
§ 91.06 MODIFICATIONS OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Chief of the Bureau shall have the power to modify any of the provisions
of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee,
or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are substantial practical
difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of the Code. However, the intent
of the Code shall be preserved, public safety secured and substantial justice
done. The particulars of a modification, when granted or allowed, shall be
entered upon the records of the Bureau, and a signed copy furnished the
applicant. There shall be no administrative appeal from the decision of the
Chief.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 NEW MATERIALS AND PROCESSES; PERMITS.
   The Chief of the Bureau shall determine and specify, after hearing, any new
materials, processes or occupancies that shall require permits, in addition to
those now enumerated in the Fire Prevention Code. The Chief shall post a list
of such new materials, processes and occupancies in a conspicuous place in his
or her office.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency district office.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. OPEN BURNING includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. Rule 3745-17-09 or 3745-
17-10.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) (Ord. 93-65, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 91.21 RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in the code of ordinances, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   Consistent with O.A.C. § 3745-19-02(B), no provisions of the Ohio
Administrative Code which otherwise permits open burning, and no permission to
open burn granted by the Ohio EPA shall exempt any person from compliance with
the regulations of the city dealing with open burning.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) (Ord. 93-65, passed 2-7-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 OPEN BURNING IN THE MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in this
municipality except as provided in divisions (B) to (E) of this section or in
R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the City Manager:
      (1)   Cooking for human consumption, (e.g., outdoor grills);
      (2)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs. Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this
section shall not be used for waste or trash disposal purposes and shall be of
minimum size sufficient for its intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants; and
      (3)   Recreational fires which are contained in an outdoor fireplace of
factory design for safety and size limit, burning clean-sawn or cut wood, that
is continuously attended by competent persons and maintained in such a manner
as to avoid ignition of nearby combustible materials or cause injury to
attendees. The term OUTDOOR FIREPLACE, as used herein, is intended to describe
a factory-made container, round, square or rectangular, of less than nine
square feet, made of clay, ceramic or metal material, sometimes with a chimney
and held off the ground on a stable base, and designed to safely contain a
recreational or cooking fire.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA and the Madeira/Indian Hill Fire Department if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the local health department, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or United States Department
of Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method; and
      (2)   Ceremonial fires provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The ceremonial fires shall be less than five feet by five feet
in dimension and shall burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   The ceremonial fires shall not be used for waste disposal
purposes; and
         (c)   The fuel shall be chosen so as to minimize the generation and
emission of air contaminants.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA and the Madeira/Indian Hill Fire
Department provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA and
the Madeira/Indian Hill Fire Department determine that there is no practical
alternate method of disposal;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in the
control of fires;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Ohio EPA and the Madeira/Indian Hill Fire
Department;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural, range or wildlife
management practices; and
      (5)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written
verification from the local health department, county agricultural extension
agency, Ohio Department of Agriculture or United States Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
   (E)   (1)   Open burning shall be allowed by contractors engaged in the
construction of buildings for the purpose of providing a warming fire if the
contractor obtains a permit from the City Manager which provides that the
following conditions must be followed:
         (a)   The warming fire may only occur on the construction site, lot or
recorded plat referred to in the permit application;
         (b)   Such burning shall be supervised by an employee of the
contractor at all times;
         (c)   A warming fire shall not be used to burn construction debris;
         (d)   A warming fire may only be used when the outside temperature is
below 40°F; and
         (e)   Any additional conditional conditions imposed by the City
Manager, based on unique situations of the site, such as close proximity of
occupied structures, wind velocity or unusually dry conditions.
      (2)   The City Manager shall revoke the permit if any provision of this
section is violated.
   (F)   Annually, in accordance with a schedule specified by the Director of
Environmental Protection, the City Manager shall cause a report to be made to
the Director regarding the number of permits issued, renewed, and revoked for
the preceding calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) (Ord. 93-65, passed 2-7-1994; Ord. 03-25, passed 12-8-
2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 91.35 SMOKING IN BED PROHIBITED; DISCARDING CIGARETTES.
   No person shall smoke, or ignite a lighter or match, while sitting or lying
upon any bed. No person shall deposit or leave a lighted cigar, cigarette or
pipe, or discard a lighted cigar or cigarette so that it comes to rest, or may
be blown by the wind, upon, or within one foot of, any combustible material or
substance, except in a noncombustible container or tray, or on a noncombustible
surface shielded from adjacent combustible material or substance.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention
Code, as adopted and enacted into law by §§
91.01 through
91.07, or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who builds a fire in violation of or
noncompliance with any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted
and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder and
from which no appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with any order that
is affirmed, or any order as modified, upon appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed in the order, as extended by any appeal
taken within such time, shall severally for each and every violation or
noncompliance be fined not less than $100 nor more than $150. When not
otherwise expressly provided, each ten days that violations, noncompliances or
prohibited conditions continue, whether before or after the imposition of a
penalty therefor under §§
91.01 through
91.07, shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of a penalty under
those sections shall not be held to prevent the forced removal or elimination
of prohibited conditions.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.22 shall, for each conviction, be fined not more than $150.
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
91.35 shall be fined not more than $150 for each occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 1417, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 93-65, passed 2-7-
1994; Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 92: JUNK; RUBBISH; LITTERING; WEEDS
Section
Junk and Rubbish
   
92.01   Storing inoperative motor vehicles, refuse or rubbish
   
92.02   Storing building materials
   
92.03   Acceptable hours of private trash pickup
Littering
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Litter in public places
   
92.17   Placement of litter in receptacles to prevent scattering
   
92.18   Upsetting public or private receptacles
   
92.19   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
92.20   Duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
92.21   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
92.22   Truck and vehicle loads causing litter
   
92.23   Tracking mud, dirt or other substances on streets
   
92.24   Litter in parks
   
92.25   Litter in lakes and fountains
   
92.26   Throwing or distributing handbills in public places
   
92.27   Placing handbills on vehicles
   
92.28   Depositing handbills on uninhabited or vacant premises
   
92.29   Prohibiting distribution of handbills where posted
   
92.30   Distributing handbills at inhabited private premises
   
92.31   Posting notices prohibited
   
92.32   Litter on occupied private property
   
92.33   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
92.34   Litter on vacant lots
Weeds
   
92.45   Weeds and grasses; nuisance
   
92.46   Removal required
   
92.47   Notice
   
92.48   Failure to comply with notice; action by city; assessment
   
92.49   Compost regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
JUNK AND RUBBISH
§ 92.01 STORING INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES, REFUSE OR RUBBISH.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the term INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
shall be deemed to mean motor-driven vehicles that cannot, both physically and
lawfully, under their own power, and without repair or replacement of parts, be
operated on the public highways of this city and have remained in such
inoperative condition for 30 or more consecutive days.
   (B)   No person or corporation shall store or place any used building
materials, inoperative motor vehicles, motor vehicles parts, scrap metal,
refuse or rubbish on any property, or allow such materials, vehicles, parts or
substances to remain on any property, except to the extent that materials,
vehicles, parts or substances so stored, placed or allowed are not visible from
any point on any other property, including any point on any structure on any
other property, public or private. This section, however, shall not prohibit
the accumulation of materials in a manner designed for the composting of
materials, provided the materials contained therein are comprised primarily of
yard waste and other materials recognized as acceptable for composting. All
such materials must be kept and maintained in accordance with §
92.49 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 94-43, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 STORING BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall not be unlawful for any person or corporation to store or
place used building materials on any property when the materials are to be used
by the owner of the property in construction on the property or on any other
property owned by him or her.
   (B)   However, the materials shall not be allowed to remain unused on the
property for more than 30 days prior to the commencement of construction of the
building in the construction of which they are to be used, or for more than six
months in any event.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
§ 92.03 ACCEPTABLE HOURS OF PRIVATE TRASH PICKUP.
   No person shall collect, pickup, remove or empty receptacles of junk, trash,
garbage refuse or rubbish from any property, public or private, except between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. All operations shall be conducted in
conformity with §
112.15.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 89-36, passed 7-17-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
LITTERING
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishments, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER, GARBAGE, REFUSE and RUBBISH. As defined herein, and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to the public health, safety and welfare.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Printed or written matter, any sample, or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature
not included in the definition of a COMMERCIAL HANDBILL.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY or PRIVATE PLACE. All property not included in the
definition of PUBLIC PROPERTY, including but not limited to vacant land or any
land, building or other structure designed or used for residential, commercial,
business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together with any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox and
other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY or PUBLIC PLACE. All property owned, operated or controlled
by any governmental agency, including but not limited to streets, sidewalks,
tree lawns, parks, playgrounds, parking lots, schools, libraries, post offices,
municipal transit facilities and other public lands and buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, dirt, cigarettes, cardboard,
tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway.
(Prior Code, § 92.15)
§ 92.16 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any streets, sidewalk or
other public place within the city, except in public receptacles or in
authorized receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 92.16) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in private receptacles shall
do so in a manner to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements
on any street, sidewalk or other public place, or on private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 UPSETTING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset a public or private receptacle designated or used for
the deposit of litter, or cause or permit its contents to be deposited or
strewn in or on public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.18) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or sweep into any gutter, sidewalk, street or
other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building
or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning,
controlling or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their
premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 92.19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Any person, being the owner, agent, lessee, occupant or
person otherwise in charge or control of any premises abutting a city street
shall, after notification by a police officer, remove, with reasonable
promptness, from the sidewalk area along the premises all debris, rubbish,
litter and other matter which may at any time accumulate or be deposited
thereon from any cause whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or a passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or any public place within the city, or upon
private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 TRUCK AND VEHICLE LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless the vehicle is constructed and loaded to prevent any load, contents or
litter from being thrown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public
place. No person, being the owner, driver or other person in charge of a
vehicle hauling excavated material, coal, coke, construction or building
materials, or other materials within the city shall permit any part of the
material to fall, drop or be blown therefrom on a city street, alley or other
public place. When a vehicle carries trash, sawdust, ashes or cinders, sand,
earth, lime, manure or other substance liable to be blown away, the owner,
driver or other person in charge shall, before driving or operating it on any
street, alley or public place, cause the substance, or substances to be
completely covered with a canvas, tarp or other substantial covering in such
manner that the same cannot fall or be blown from a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 TRACKING MUD, DIRT OR OTHER SUBSTANCES ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street, alley or other public place a
vehicle with mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter on its
wheels or other parts if such operation results in the depositing or tracking
of the mud, dirt, substances, litter or foreign matter on any street, alley or
other public place. No person, being the owner of real property or a prime
contractor in charge of a construction site, shall maintain the property or
construction site so that vehicles upon the property or construction site pick
up mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter on the wheels or
other parts, and deposit or track mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter onto any street, alley or other public place.
   (B)   Where mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter has been
tracked or deposited on any street, alley or other public place in violation of
§
92.21, the City Manager is authorized to cause the mud, dirt, substances,
litter or foreign matter to be cleaned from the street, and to charge the cost
thereof to the person responsible. The cost of cleaning shall be collected by
civil suit. The term RESPONSIBLE PERSON as used in this section, shall mean the
driver of the vehicle which deposited or tracked the mud, dirt, substance,
litter or foreign matter on the street, or his or her employer, or the owner of
the real property or prime contractor in charge of a construction site from
where the deposited or tracked mud, dirt, substance, litter or foreign matter
on the street, alley or other public place originated.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except
in public receptacles, and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 LITTER IN LAKES AND FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream,
bay or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city. No person
shall hand out, distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place.
However, it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place
within the city for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept
it, except within or around the city hall building.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle.
   (B)   However, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to
hand out or distribute, without charge, a noncommercial handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Prior Code, § 92.27) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 DEPOSITING HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant.
(Prior Code, § 92.28) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon not to do so,
or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: “No Trespassing”, “No Peddlers or
Agents”, “No Advertisement” or any similar notice, indicating in any manner
that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed, or have any handbills left upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 92.29) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS AT INHABITED PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon the private premises which are inhabited,
except by handing or transmitting any handbill directly to the owner, occupant
or other person then present in or upon the private premises.
      (2)   In the case of inhabited private premises which are not posted as
provided in this subchapter, the person, unless requested by anyone upon the
premises not to do so, may place or deposit any handbill in or upon the
inhabited private premises, if the handbill is placed or deposited to secure or
prevent the handbill from being blown or drifted about the premises or
sidewalks, streets or other public places, except that mailboxes may not be
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of
mail by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be
placed on private property in a manner to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.30) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade trees, or upon any public structure or building, except
as may be authorized or required by law.
(Prior Code, § 92.31) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the city, whether owned by the person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place, or upon any private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.32) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. However, this section shall not prohibit
the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 92.33) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.34 LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by the person or not.
(Prior Code, § 92.34) Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.45 WEEDS AND GRASSES; NUISANCE.
   Council hereby finds and determines that the growth of grass to a height in
excess of eight inches and any growth of rank vegetation, turf grass and
noxious weeds and plants, including, but not limited to, thistles, wild
lettuce, wild mustard, ragweeds, poison ivy, exotic or non-native plants, and
any other weed or wild pollen or seeds spread or about to be spread by it,
which by reason of the density of its growth, or by reason of its
unsightliness, or dense growth, injuriously affects the public health, safety
and welfare and the same, and any land covered thereby, are hereby declared to
be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.45) (Ord. 1256, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 90-64, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-2019; Ord. 20-07, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 21-04,
passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.46 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city shall keep the
grass thereon cut to a height not in excess of eight inches and shall keep the
same free and clear from all noxious weeds and plants, turf grass, and rank
vegetation and shall cut or cause to be cut all such weeds and vegetation on
lots owned or controlled by him or her as required to prevent such growth and/
or the maturing or spreading of seeds or pollen therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 92.46) (Ord. 1256, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 90-64, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-2019; Ord. 20-07, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 21-04,
passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 NOTICE.
   Upon information that a nuisance exists as described in §
92.45, including grasses in excess of eight inches in height, or noxious weeds
or exotic plants growing on the lands in the city or that such vegetation is
about to spread or mature seeds and/or pollen, the City Manager shall cause a
notice of violation to be served on the owners or persons having charge of such
lands indicating that such grass, weeds and/or vegetation shall be cut and
destroyed by the city or one of its assigns within five days after service of
the notice of violation. Such notice of violation shall be served consistent
with the process requirements set forth in §
153.079. If the City Manager determines that there is a reason to believe that
the owner or person in charge of the land cannot be so served with the notice,
then such notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city and shall be sufficient if such owners and persons
in charge are named therein.
(Prior Code, § 92.47) (Ord. 1256, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 90-64, passed 9-17-
1990; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-2019; Ord. 20-07, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 21-04,
passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.48 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE; ACTION BY CITY; ASSESSMENT.
   Should the owner or person having charge of any such land fail to comply
with such notice of violation provided by §
92.47 the City Manager shall cause such grass, weeds and/or vegetation to be
cut and/or destroyed and removed and all costs or expense thereof shall, when
approved by Council, be assessed against such lands and certified and collected
as provided by law in the case of other assessments levied by Council. The
expense to be assessed shall include the cost and expense of calculating,
levying and collecting such assessments and all other necessary expenses, as
well as the cost of cutting and removing. Any costs or expenses incurred
hereunder shall be in addition to the fines set forth in §
153.999.
(Prior Code, § 92.48) (Ord. 90-64, passed 9-17-1990; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-
2019; Ord. 20-07, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.49 COMPOST REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPOST. The product of the composting process. COMPOST is characterized
as chemically and biologically altered organic material which has become
chemically and biologically stable, and is free from offensive odors.
      COMPOST PILE. A place where composting occurs.
      COMPOSTING. The controlled decomposition of organic solid wastes under
aerobic conditions to produce relatively stable, inert material that may be
incorporated into the soil without producing any adverse impact to the soil or
the public health.
      RESIDENTIAL COMPOSTING. Any composting activity conducted by the resident
on his or her property.
      SOIL INCORPORATION. The immediate plowing, disking or chiseling of
organic residue into the soil.
      YARD WASTE or GREEN WASTE. The residue generated from lawns, shrubs,
gardens and other such vegetation. YARD WASTE may include grass clippings,
shrub trimmings, brush, garden waste and tree wastes. YARD WASTE does not
include materials, such as, but not limited to, meat, fish, dairy products,
bones, pastas, cheeses, salad dressings.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to any person who is disposing
of yard waste through soil incorporation.
   (C)   Location of residential compost piles. Residential compost piles shall
be located:
      (1)   In a rear yard or side yard;
      (2)   In a location where it can be properly maintained;
      (3)   A minimum of 50 feet from a private water supply system;
      (4)   A minimum of ten feet from any private sewage disposal system; and
      (5)   A minimum of 50 feet from any natural watercourse.
   (D)   Prohibition against creating a public health nuisance.
      (1)   No person shall create or maintain a residential compost pile in
such a manner that it becomes a rodent or insect harborage.
      (2)   No person shall create or maintain a residential compost pile in
such a manner that it produces offensive and noxious off-site odors.
      (3)   No person shall create or maintain a residential compost pile in
such a manner that it causes any form of surface or groundwater pollution.
   (E)   Construction of a residential compost pile. The compost pile shall:
      (1)   Be constructed and maintained to prevent off-site odor;
      (2)   Not be allowed to become a nuisance, or to attract vectors (such as
rodents, insects and the like) or to become a health or safety hazard; and
      (3)   Have adequate drainage, such that any natural liquids generated by
the decomposing yard wastes shall be absorbed into the soil.
   (F)   Maintenance of residential compost piles.
      (1)   Residential compost piles shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary manner.
      (2)   Residential household compost piles that are producing off-site
odors shall be immediately remedied or removed.
(Prior Code, § 92.49) (Ord. 94-43, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
92.01 or
92.02 shall be fined not more than $150, and a separate offense occurs or
continues. In the event of any violation by a corporation, the violation shall
be deemed equally committed by the president of the corporation, who shall in
such event be deemed personally amenable to the provision of those sections,
and subject to fine hereunder by reason of the violation.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
92.03 shall be fined not more than $150, and each violation at each location or
address shall be a separate offense and each day continuation shall be a
separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.16 through
92.34 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $150. Each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (E)   Every person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §§
92.45 through
92.47 shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
153.999 and any costs or expenses incurred by the city to remediate the issues
identified in the subject notice of violation as is set forth in §
92.48.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provisions §
92.49 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and shall be prosecuted and
punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 1401, passed 5-21-1979; Ord. 1405, passed 5-21-
1979; Ord. 89-36, passed 7-17-1989; Ord. 94-43, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 04-21,
passed 8-23-2004; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-2019; Ord. 20-07, passed 7-27-2020)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Cutting Open Streets and Sidewalks
   
93.001   Permit required; fee; bond
   
93.002   Specifications for opening and restoring streets
   
93.003   Backfilling after tapping sewers or utilities
   
93.004   Maintenance of surface for 12 months
   
93.005   Notice to abutting owners to install water or sewer pipes
   
93.006   Contractors working for the city
   
93.007   Emergency opening or cut in streets
Pavement of Roadways
   
93.020   Permit required
   
93.021   City Manager to set specifications in permit
   
93.022   Violators to remove and reconstruct pavements
Sidewalk Construction
   
93.035   Definitions
   
93.036   Approval by City Manager
   
93.037   Orders to contractor
   
93.038   Lines and grades
   
93.039   Adjustment of stop-boxes
   
93.040   Protection of electrical conduits and cables
   
93.041   Inspection
   
93.042   Guarantee
   
93.043   Cleaning up
   
93.044   Estoppel
   
93.045   Responsibility
   
93.046   Grading
   
93.047   Trees
   
93.048   Cement concrete walks
   
93.049   Construction
   
93.050   Curing
   
93.051   Cold weather
   
93.052   Finishing up
   
93.053   Reinforced walks
   
93.054   Condemnation of cracked or defective sidewalks
   
93.055   Abutting owner responsible for sidewalks
Debris and Snow
   
93.070   Sidewalk to be in repair and free from debris or snow
   
93.071   Notice to clean or repair sidewalk
   
93.072   Repair of sidewalk by city
Railroad Crossings
   
93.085   Blocking street for more than ten minutes
 
   
93.999   Penalty
CUTTING OPEN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 93.001 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; BOND.
   (A)   No person shall cut open the surface of any public street, sidewalk or
other improved area within the public right-of-way, or cut any public curb, or
construct a driveway across any public sidewalk or other improved area within
the public right-of-way without a permit issued by the City Manager. No person
shall perform any work in connection with any opening, cut or driveway, except
in accordance with the specifications governing the same pursuant to this
subchapter, to the extent that specifications exist and apply to such work. The
foregoing shall apply to each person performing any part of the actual work
involved in any violation of the foregoing, and any part of any following
construction, installation, repair, restoration or other work related to the
work involved in the violation, as well as to the person directing any part of
the work, and the person at whose direction any work is done. Applications for
permits shall be made in such form as may be prescribed by the City Manager,
and shall be accompanied by plans and specifications as he or she may require.
The fee for each permit shall be a flat fee of $25.
   (B)   In addition, the applicant for any permit shall deposit with the city,
prior to issuance of his or her permit, such sum as may be necessary, in the
judgment of the Manager, to cover the costs of inspection by the city of the
work to be performed under the permit, and to cover the costs of restoration of
the affected public improvements, in accordance with the specifications
governing the same pursuant hereto, in the event that the restoration,
including re-restoration, in accordance with such specifications and with the
directions of the Manager is not accomplished by the applicant, or that the
Manager determines that the work of the restoration or re-restoration, or any
part thereof, shall be done by the city with its own forces. If the amount so
deposited by the applicant receiving the permit is insufficient to cover all
such costs, and the costs of any other work done by the city in default of his
or her compliance with such specifications or with this chapter, he or she
shall pay to the city, promptly upon receipt of invoice thereof, the full
amount of any additional cost. If the total of the costs is in any given case
less than the amount of his or her deposit, the excess amount shall be refunded
to him or her upon determination by the Manager that no further costs will be
chargeable hereunder against the deposit, and in no event later than 12 months
from the date of completion of the work for which his or her permit was issued.
Any work not timely done in compliance with such specifications or with this
chapter may be done or caused to be done by the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 24-04, passed 7-22-2024) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.002 SPECIFICATIONS FOR OPENING AND RESTORING STREETS.
   The Manager may establish specifications governing the types of materials to
be used; the manner in which all openings and cuts are to be made; the manner
in which all driveways within the public right-of-way are to be constructed;
the manner in which all work is to be protected during the course thereof; and
the manner in which all affected public improvements are to be restored upon
the completion of the work, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the procedures to be followed during construction operations for the
purpose of preventing conditions prejudicial to the effectiveness of the
restoration work executed in accordance with the specifications pertaining
thereto. The specifications shall include provisions determining the time of
commencement and the time of completion for the various operations and work
covered, and the acts required, by the specifications, the nature or importance
of which is such in the judgment of the City Manager as to justify regulating
the time of performance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003 BACKFILLING AFTER TAPPING SEWERS OR UTILITIES.
   No backfilling shall be done in any opening made for the purpose or tapping
sewers or other utilities owned by the city unless the openings are inspected
by the city immediately prior to backfilling.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004 MAINTENANCE OF SURFACE FOR 12 MONTHS.
   (A)   Each person to whom any permit is issued hereunder for the purpose of
any opening or cut shall maintain for 12 months the surface restored by him or
her, or caused by him or her to be restored, at the site of the opening or cut.
If at any time during that period the restored surface settles to a point more
than one-half inch below the level of the nearest uncut or unopened paved
surface, he or she shall immediately, with or without notice from the Manager
or the city, remove such portion of the backfill in his or her excavation at
the site, or such portion of the restored surface, and shall immediately refill
the excavation and resurface the opening or cut, as the Manager may direct. All
of the foregoing shall also apply with regard to settling within such period of
re-restored surfaces.
   (B)   Each person shall be primarily liable and responsible for any personal
injuries sustained by any and all third persons or their property and caused by
the occurrence, within the maintenance period, of any settling of any surface
which he or she restored or re-restored or caused to be restored or re-
restored.
   (C)   If the work of any restoration or re-restoration, or any part thereof,
is in any particular case done by the city with its own forces, the person to
whom the permit is issued shall have no responsibility for maintenance, or
liability in connection with settling, after the restoration or re-restoration,
or part thereof, is completed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005 NOTICE TO ABUTTING OWNERS TO INSTALL WATER OR SEWER PIPES.
   Prior to paving or resurfacing any public street, the City Manager shall
cause notices to be sent to all abutting property owners requiring them to
install any needed water or sewer service branches, or any other needed utility
service branches for which permission for installation in a public street may
be given by the city, or be thereafter barred from making any installation
within the street pursuant to the provisions of this section. Notice shall also
at that time be sent to all affected public utility companies, privately or
publicly owned, to install all necessary mains, conduits, service branches and
related subsurface structures, or be similarly thereafter barred from making
such installations. Each property owner and public utility company wishing to
make any installation shall notify the City Manager in writing within ten days
after his, her or its receipt of the notice, and shall then be allowed such
time as may be necessary for the making of an installation before the paving or
resurfacing is done. No permit for making any opening in new or resurfaced
pavement shall be issued for a period of three years, commencing with the date
of the final completion of new or resurfaced pavement, except for, reasons of
public necessity, or of countervailing public benefit, or of undue private
hardship, and then only, as to any asserted hardship, in cases in which the
circumstances that it is asserted will create hardship if the permit is denied
are due to causes over which the applicant has and has had no control. Lack of
foresight shall not be considered a cause over which an applicant has had no
control.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.006 CONTRACTORS WORKING FOR THE CITY.
   Sections 93.005 through 93.007 shall apply to contractors working under
contract with a bond to the city, but no contractor so engaged shall, in
connection with such work for the city, be required to pay the costs of
inspection, or make the deposit that would otherwise be required of him or her
under those sections.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.007 EMERGENCY OPENING OR CUT IN STREETS.
   In any case in which any emergency opening or cut is necessary, the person
requiring the same shall notify the police of the existence of the emergency as
soon as possible after the emergency arises. The person shall apply for a
permit for the opening or cut, retroactively, on the first day after the
emergency on which the office of the Manager is open for regular business, and
shall thereafter, in connection with an application for the permit, and in all
other respects relative to the opening or cut, comply with all of the
provisions of §§
93.001 through
93.007, except to such extent as the application of such provisions may be
waived by the Manager. The Manager shall in such cases also have the right to
direct all emergency work, the manner in which it is done and protected, and,
whether or not the work is done under his or her direction, to order that the
work be redone as soon thereafter as it is possible to redo the work under
normal conditions. All emergency work not done and protected at and in
accordance with the directions of the Manager shall, insofar as the city and
all third persons are concerned, be at the sole risk, liability and
responsibility of the person doing the work or ordering the same to be done.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) Penalty, see §
93.999
PAVEMENT OF ROADWAYS
§ 93.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or corporation shall pave or otherwise improve or cause to be
paved or improved any part of the area within any public right-of-way for the
accommodation of vehicles, whether for public or private purposes or use,
without written permit issued by the City Manager, or unless ordered by public
authority. Sections
93.020 through
93.022 shall not apply, however, to the construction of any private driveway,
provided that the driveway is not intended for use as a means of ingress or
egress to or from more than one permitted structure.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.021 CITY MANAGER TO SET SPECIFICATIONS IN PERMIT.
   The City Manager shall set forth in each permit, or refer therein to, the
plans and specifications in accordance with which all work done under the
permit shall be performed. Plans and specifications shall be prepared,
prescribed or approved by the City Manager, and the requirements shown on and
stated in the plans and specifications shall be such as will produce a pavement
or improvement matching in design, kind and quality the main existing public
roadway pavement located adjacent or nearest to the proposed private
construction in the same right-of-way, and connecting to the main pavement, if
the City Manager deems a connection desirable, in such manner as the City
Manager may deem appropriate in the interests of public traffic. No person or
corporation in whose name any permit is issued shall, in performing work or
causing work to be performed under the permit, deviate or suffer deviation from
the plans and specifications prescribed in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.022 VIOLATORS TO REMOVE AND RECONSTRUCT PAVEMENTS.
   (A)   A person or corporation convicted of a violation of §§
93.020 or
93.021 shall, at his, her or its own expense, and within ten days after
conviction:
      (1)   Remove or cause to be removed the pavement or improvement, the
construction of which or causing the construction of which constituted the
violation, and restore or cause to be restored the public right-of-way over
which the pavement or improvement was constructed to the condition in which the
right-of-way existed immediately prior to construction; or
      (2)   Reconstruct the pavement or improvement, or cause the same to be
reconstructed, as necessary to correct all deviations constituting the
violation, as the case may be, if the removal and restoration, or the
correction, has not earlier been accomplished.
   (B)   (1)   Each day that the pavement or improvement remains unremoved, and
the right-of-way remains unrestored or the deviations remain uncorrected, after
the expiration of the ten-day period, shall constitute a separate violation of
those sections by such person or corporation.
      (2)   Each person or corporation convicted of a violation of §§
93.020 or
93.021 with respect to the construction of the same pavement or improvement
shall bear the full obligation of effecting the removal and restoration or the
correction, separately and independently of any other person or corporation
convicted of a violation with respect to the construction.
      (3)   He or she shall be subject to the penalties herein prescribed for
failure to effect the removal and restoration or the correction, whether or not
any other person or corporation is likewise and concurrently subject to such
penalties for failure to effect the removal and restoration or the correction,
and whether or not the period within which the removal and restoration or the
correction must be effected by one person or corporation differs from that
within which it must be effected by any other person or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) Penalty, see §
93.999
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTED, REQUIRED, PERMITTED, ORDERED, DESIGNATED, PRESCRIBED OR WORDS OF
LIKE IMPORT. Wherever in §§
93.035 through
93.055 these words are used, the directions, requirements, permission, order,
designation or prescription of the City Manager is intended, and, similarly,
the words APPROVED, ACCEPTABLE, SATISFACTORY OR WORDS OF LIKE IMPORT shall mean
approved by, or acceptable or satisfactory to, the City Manager, unless
otherwise expressly stated.
(Prior Code, § 93.35)
§ 93.036 APPROVAL BY CITY MANAGER.
   All sidewalk work within any public right-of-way within the city shall be
done to the satisfaction of the City Manager, who shall in all cases determine
the quality, acceptability and fitness of the kinds of work and materials used
or to be used.
(Prior Code, § 93.36) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.037 ORDERS TO CONTRACTOR.
   Every contractor performing any part of any work shall have on the work site
at all times a foreperson, superintendents or other competent representative to
whom orders and instructions may be given. Such orders shall have the same
force and effect as if given directly to the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 93.37) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.038 LINES AND GRADES.
   All work must be in accordance with the lines and grades directed or staked
out by the City Manager. The general contractor for the work shall be
responsible for the protection of all stakes until he or she is permitted to
remove them.
(Prior Code, § 93.38) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.039 ADJUSTMENT OF STOP-BOXES.
   No sidewalk shall be constructed, reconstructed or repaired with a grade or
surface other than flush with the top of each of any and all gas and water
stop-boxes located therein. If the work calls for a different grade, the
general contractor shall request the City Manager to make or cause to be made
such adjustments in the elevations of the boxes as will permit the
establishment of the desired grade. The making of any request, and any failure,
neglect or refusal of the City Manager to comply therewith, within any given
period, shall not, however, excuse any violation of the provisions of the first
sentence of this section.
(Prior Code, § 93.39) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.040 PROTECTION OF ELECTRICAL CONDUITS AND CABLES.
   The general contractor shall protect all affected electrical cable and
conduit, and notify Duke Energy at least 48 hours before pouring the concrete
for any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 93.40) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.041 INSPECTION.
   The general contractor shall furnish all labor necessary in handling
materials for inspection. All materials rejected shall be immediately hauled
from the vicinity of the work. This section and supervision by the City Manager
shall not operate to release any contractor from any of his or her contract
obligations. Defects of materials or workmanship shall be immediately remedied
by the contractor regardless of previous inspection. If the contractor fails to
comply promptly with these requirements, the City Manager may revoke the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 93.41) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.042 GUARANTEE.
   The general contractor shall keep all work done by him or her in good
condition and repair for one year from the date of final inspection and
approval by the City Manager, and any portion of the work that becomes
defective, through settlement, cracking, breaking of surface or otherwise,
shall be removed and replaced with new work by the contractor at his or her own
expense.
(Prior Code, § 93.42) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.043 CLEANING UP.
   As fast as any sidewalk is laid, all rubbish and surplus material that has
accumulated during the progress of the work shall be removed from the public
right-of-way by the contractor, and the completed portion of the work left
clean and in good condition.
(Prior Code, § 93.43) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.044 ESTOPPEL.
   The city shall not be precluded or estopped by any return or certificate
made or given by it from showing at any time, before or after the final
completion and acceptance of the work and payment therefor pursuant to any
return or certificate, the true and correct amount and character of the work
done and materials furnished by any contractor or other person, or that any
return or certificate is untrue and incorrect or improperly made in any
particular, or that the work and materials, or any part thereof, do not in fact
conform to the requirements of §§
93.035 through
93.055. The city shall not be precluded or estopped, notwithstanding any return
or certificate or payment in accordance therewith, from demanding and
recovering from any contractor such damages as it may sustain by reason of his
or her failure to comply with the requirements.
(Prior Code, § 93.44) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.045 RESPONSIBILITY.
   During the progress of the work, the general contractor shall assume the
risk of, and be responsible for, any and all damages to persons or property
caused by or in any way resulting from performance of the work or the work
itself.
(Prior Code, § 93.45) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.046 GRADING.
   (A)   If a sidewalk is to be constructed in any part upon fill, the
contractor shall place the fill in four-inch layers, and thoroughly roll or
tamp each layer.
   (B)   The width of each layer shall be as directed.
   (C)   After a walk is laid, the areas on each side thereof shall be filled
or excavated, as the case may be, and shall be finish-graded to the width as
directed.
(Prior Code, § 93.46) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.047 TREES.
   Any trees which interfere with the construction of sidewalks shall be
carefully taken down by the general contractor to avoid damage of any kind, and
the stump shall be grubbed out by the contractor one foot below grade.
(Prior Code, § 93.47) Penalty, see §
93.999
Cross-reference:
   Trees, see
Ch. 95
§ 93.048 CEMENT CONCRETE WALKS.
   All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement class “D” concrete,
and shall be five inches thick and of single-course construction laid directly
on prepared subgrade.
(Prior Code, § 93.48) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.049 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Excavation for a sidewalk shall be made to a depth of five inches
below the proposed finished grade and to a width of three inches more on each
side than the width of the proposed walk. All tree roots exposed by excavation
shall be cut off at least three inches outside the lines of the proposed walk
and three inches below the subgrade. The subgrade shall be evenly fine-graded
and thoroughly compacted with a five-ton roller. Where the use of a roller is
impracticable, the subgrade shall be compacted by heavy tamping. If springs are
encountered, drains shall be laid as directed.
   (B)   Forms shall be either steel or sound two-inch plank and shall be
straight, true and clean. Forms shall be set true to line and grade and firmly
staked down. Where curved walks are to be constructed, thin strips or forms
that will produce a smooth, regular curve shall be used. The alignment,
elevation and slope of all walks shall be subject to special directions from
the City Manager. Sidewalk adjoining a curb shall be one-fourth inch higher
than the top of the curbing at the line of the junction. The slope of a full
width walk shall be five-sixteenth inch per foot up from the curb to the
building line. Any proposed variation from the foregoing shall be shown on the
plans and approved by the City Manager, or shall be directed by the City
Manager.
   (C)   The concrete shall be of plastic consistency, and placed on the
prepared subgrade in one operation. It shall be struck off and truly
straightened, then neatly hand-floated until all coarse aggregate is entirely
covered. Before the concrete sets, the surface of the walk shall be cut into
blocks with a jointer, and the edges tooled until they are firm and smooth. The
blocks shall be cut to straight lines generally rectangular, measuring usually
not less than two nor more than five feet on the side. The design of the
blocking shall be subject to the special direction of the City Manager. After
the walk has been blocked out, the concrete shall be carefully floated to a
smooth and uniform surface. The margin of each block shall then be tooled with
the edger or jointer to a smooth, dense finish. The final edger or jointer
marks shall not be floated out.
   (D)   Around street sign and stop sign posts, the walk shall be blocked out
in one-foot squares.
   (E)   Expansion joints shall be provided at such intervals, not exceeding 30
feet, as may be directed. The joints shall be made of preformed material one-
half inch thick and five inches wide.
   (F)   Joints shall also be constructed at all joints between new sidewalk
and adjoining curb, between new sidewalk and all new entrance walks and drives,
and between curb and all new entrance walks, and the same preformed material,
one-fourth inch thick and five inches wide, shall also be installed around all
poles, fire hydrants, cellar holes, inlets and other street items. Where cement
walks are laid along steel plate curbs, the joints shall be aligned with the
joints in the curbs. The breaking or displacement of curbs or the buckling of
walks due to lack of proper joints shall be made good by the contractor at his
or her own expense.
   (G)   All work shall connect with adjoining work in a reasonable and
satisfactory manner.
(Prior Code, § 93.49) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.050 CURING.
   (A)   As soon as the concrete has taken its initial set, all exposed
surfaces shall be sealed by spraying thereon, in a fine mist, a uniform
application of waterproof white membrane curing compound in a manner to provide
a continuous, uniform, water-impermeable film without marring the surfaces.
   (B)   The containers of the compound shall be agitated thoroughly prior to
and during the spraying operation as may be necessary to assure that all
ingredients of the compound are in solution or in well-dispersed suspension
when applied. The compound shall be considered to be sufficiently agitated when
no gummy deposit adheres to the end of a rod scraped across the bottom of the
container. The compound shall be applied by approved pressure-spraying
equipment at a rate not exceeding 200 square feet per gallon. De Vilbiss Type
NU 503 Spray Gun with a No. 54 Air Cap and FF Fluid Tip, together with a ten-
gallon De Vilbiss QM 5664 Pressure Feed Paint Tank, or equal, shall be
acceptable if in first class condition. The orifice of the jet or jets of the
equipment shall not be held less than eight inches nor more than 15 inches from
the surface of the concrete during the spraying operation. The compound shall
be applied in one or more separate coats, as necessary to avoid any runoff or
sagging of the membrane. If the film is broken or damaged at any time during
the specified curing period, the area or areas affected shall be given a
complete duplicate application of the compound.
   (C)   As soon as the forms have been removed and all honeycomb corrected,
the edges of the walks shall be sealed with the compound.
   (D)   Unless satisfactory precautions are taken to protect the surface of
the membrane, all persons, materials, and equipment shall be kept off the
membrane during the curing period, which shall be 72 hours.
   (E)   When the surface temperature of the concrete is in excess of 110°F,
satisfactory protection against exposure to the direct rays of the sun shall be
provided for at least three days following application of the compound.
(Prior Code, § 93.50) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.051 COLD WEATHER.
   (A)   When the temperature is below 40°F or predicted to go below 36°F in
the next 24 hours, or predicted to go below 32°F in the next 72 hours, no
concrete shall be poured unless expressly permitted. Any permission shall be
for a single day and a specific location only.
   (B)   When permission is granted:
      (1)   No concrete shall be poured until adequate covering material is on
the site, and a sufficient number of workers are present to keep the finishing
and covering immediately behind the spreading; and
      (2)   All forms shall be cleaned of all frost. In no case shall concrete
be poured on frozen ground, or on subgrade on which there is frost.
(Prior Code, § 93.51) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.052 FINISHING UP.
   The contractor shall, after removing the strips used in screening the walk,
fill the spaces left by the removal with fine earth well compacted. Any lawn
space between curb and walk shall be neatly dressed to conform to the grade of
the walk and curb.
(Prior Code, § 93.52) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.053 REINFORCED WALKS.
   Reinforced concrete walks shall be constructed only according to approved
plans. Walks shall be designed to carry a live load of 250 pounds per square
foot or an 8,000-pound concentrated load, whichever produces greater stress.
The concrete shall be proportioned, mixed and laid as specified for one-course
walks. Reinforced walks shall not be cut into blocks.
(Prior Code, § 93.53) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.054 CONDEMNATION OF CRACKED OR DEFECTIVE SIDEWALKS.
   The following sidewalks, or parts of walks, now or thereafter existing,
shall be condemned:
   (A)   Any block or segment having a crack in it more than five-eighths inch
wide at the surface;
   (B)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose adjacent edges differ in
vertical elevation by more than five eighths inch;
   (C)   Blocks that have holes in them five-eighths inch or more in diameter,
or that are broken so that substantial fragments are missing or loose;
   (D)   Blocks having depressions such as to impound mud or water;
   (E)   Blocks having a slope away from the street in excess of three-fourths
inch vertical per one foot horizontal;
   (F)   Blocks that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of a
sidewalk; and
   (G)   Blocks that are very rough, with the coarse aggregate protruding, by
reason of raveling or spalling.
(Prior Code, § 93.54) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.055 ABUTTING OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   On and after January 6, 1973, the city will no longer be responsible
for the construction, repair and maintenance of any and all sidewalks in the
city.
   (B)   The construction, repair and maintenance of sidewalks in the city
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property on which the sidewalk
abuts.
(Prior Code, § 93.55) Penalty, see §
93.999
DEBRIS AND SNOW
§ 93.070 SIDEWALK TO BE IN REPAIR AND FREE FROM DEBRIS OR SNOW.
   The occupant, or, if unoccupied, the owner, of each lot, parcel or tract of
land abutting a public sidewalk within the city shall at all times keep the
portion of the sidewalk which abuts his or her lot, parcel or tract in repair,
free from snow or any nuisance, and clear and clean of weeds, grass, dirt or
any objectionable substance. Where the occupants or owners, as the case may be,
of any lot, parcel or tract are more than one, they shall be jointly and
severally responsible for compliance herewith.
(Prior Code, § 93.70) Penalty, see §
93.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §§
92.15 through
92.34
   Littering public ways, see §
139.04
   Sidewalks to be kept free of rubbish, see §
139.08
§ 93.071 NOTICE TO CLEAN OR REPAIR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Whenever the City Manager notifies any responsible party by registered
or certified mail or by written notice otherwise delivered to the party’s
residence that the sidewalk on which his or her property abuts is in need of
any repair, clearing or cleaning, the party shall comply with the notice, and
cause the repairs described in the notice to be made, and shall cause the
sidewalk to be cleared and cleaned as required by the notice. All clearing and
cleaning shall be completed within 48 hours, and all repairs shall be completed
within five days after receipt of the notice. The notice shall specifically and
particularly describe the work to be done, and the portion of sidewalk in need
thereof.
   (B)   Property whose occupants are absent at the time the notice is sought
to be delivered and who are not expected to return within three days shall be
deemed unoccupied.
   (C)   All repair shall be done in accordance with the specifications of this
chapter. The notice need not set forth the specifications, but they shall be
available for examination by the recipient of any notice.
(Prior Code, § 93.71) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.072 REPAIR OF SIDEWALK BY CITY.
   (A)   The City Manager shall have the right to inspect all sidewalks, or
parts of walks, and to condemn the following sidewalks, or parts of walks:
      (1)   Any block or segment having a crack in it more than five-eighths-
inch wide at the surface;
      (2)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose adjacent edges differ in
vertical elevation by more than five-eighths inch;
      (3)   Blocks that have holes in them five-eighths inch or more in
diameter, or that are broken so that substantial fragments are missing or
loose;
      (4)   Blocks having depressions such as to impound mud or water;
      (5)   Blocks having a slope away from the street in excess of three-
fourths inch vertical per one foot horizontal;
      (6)   Blocks that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of a
sidewalk; and
      (7)   Blocks that are very rough, with the coarse aggregate protruding by
reason of raveling or spalling.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   After the City Manager has condemned a sidewalk, or a part
thereof, the owner of the property which abuts the condemned sidewalk shall be
sent a letter notifying him or her of the action taken by the City Manager.
         (b)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail.
      (2)   This letter of notice shall inform the property owner that:
         (a)   He or she shall, within 30 days of the date of the letter, apply
for a permit from the Building Inspector to do the work ordered by the City
Manager, and have the required work completed within 60 days of the date of the
letter; and
         (b)   If he or she fails to apply for a permit within the three days
or fails to have the work completed within 60 days, the city shall proceed to
have the necessary work performed, and charge and collect from the property
owner the cost of the work, plus administrative charges incident thereto.
   (C)   All work ordered or performed under the provisions of this chapter
shall be in conformity with the provisions and requirements of §§
93.035 through
93.055.
(Prior Code, § 93.72) Penalty, see §
93.999
RAILROAD CROSSINGS
§ 93.085 BLOCKING STREET FOR MORE THAN TEN MINUTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to operate its locomotives,
cars or trains of cars in a manner to block a street crossing for more than ten
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 93.85) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
93.001 through
93.007 shall be fined not more than $150, and each person failing to take any
action required of him or her by or pursuant to those sections shall be deemed
to commit a separate offense hereunder each day on which he or she fails or
continues to fail to take such action.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
93.020 through
93.022 shall for each violation be fined not more than $150.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision or fails to comply with any
requirements of §§
93.035 through
93.055 shall be fined not more than $150; and corporations, partnerships, and
other firms shall be subject to the foregoing, and natural persons shall be
subject thereto whether or not acting as officers, members, agents or employees
of any corporation, partnership or other firm. The same person shall not be
fined more than once relative to or in connection with the same sidewalk
project, regardless of the number of such provisions or requirements violated
or not observed, but the City Manager shall have the right and authority,
whether or not any fine is imposed, to order the removal of each and every
portion of a sidewalk not constructed in full compliance with all such
provisions and requirements. The City Law Director may apply to the proper
court for the enforcement of any such order by means of injunction.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
93.070 through
93.072 shall be fined not more than $150 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed to have been committed each day the violation continues
after a period of ten days following the first conviction thereof.
   (E)   Any railroad company superintendent, agent or other employee thereof
who directly or indirectly violates any of the provisions of §
93.085 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not
more than $150.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 94: CITY PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Regulations applicable to city parks, property and buildings
   
94.02   Traffic laws apply in parks
   
94.03   Athletic field fees
   
94.04   Recreation field management
   
94.05   Comprehensive park and recreation plan adopted
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO CITY PARKS, PROPERTY AND BUILDINGS.
   The following rules and regulations are to apply to parks, property and
buildings owned, leased or operated by the city, and are to have the full force
and effect of law.
   (A)   Meetings. No person, except with the written permission of the City
Manager, shall hold or attend any public meeting, discussion, debate, picnic or
gathering of any kind on or within park premises or property; provided that
this rule shall not apply to family parties or small groups of picnickers.
   (B)   Concerts. No person, except with the written consent of the Manager,
shall play upon or operate any musical instrument or hold any musical concert
on or within park premises or property.
   (C)   Flags. No person, except with the written consent of the Manager,
shall display any banner, flag, target, sign or device on or within park
premises or property.
   (D)   Parades. No person, except with the written consent of the City
Manager, shall engage in any parade, drill or procession of any kind on or
within park premises or property.
   (E)   Damage. No person shall take, carry away, disturb, molest, destroy,
mar, deface, mutilate, mark or damage any public or private property on or
within park premises or property.
   (F)   Refuse. No person shall drop or throw paper, lunch boxes, bottles,
cans, refuse or litter on or within park premises or property, but shall place
the same in receptacles provided therefor.
   (G)   Ball and golf. No person shall throw or bat a hard ball, or drive,
putt or play with a golf ball, on or within park premises or property, except
at such places as may be set aside therefor by the Manager.
   (H)   Sales. No person shall sell or expose anything for sale on or within
park premises or property, or on any sidewalk bounding park premises, except
with written permission of the Manager.
   (I)   Animals. No person shall take a dog on or within park premises or
property where a sign is posted prohibiting dogs, and no person shall permit
any animal owned by him or her to run at large within park premises or property
under any circumstances, or tie any animal to any tree or plant or other
object, except such as may be particularly provided for such purpose by the
city.
   (J)   Firearms. No person shall carry or discharge, on or within park
premises or property, firearms, slings or bows, or any other devices by which
persons, animals or birds may be injured or frightened, and no person shall
throw stones or other missiles on or within park premises or property.
   (K)   Liquor. No person shall take or imbibe any intoxicating liquor upon or
within any city park premises, city property or city buildings unless a proper
permit has been obtained from the City Manager. The City Manager shall
establish written guidelines for the issuance of such permits. No alcoholic
beverages except beer and wine shall be permitted.
   (L)   Fireworks. No person, except with the written consent of the City
Manager, shall bring, display, use or discharge any fireworks on or within park
premises or property.
   (M)   Lakes. No person shall bathe, swim or fish in, or send or throw
anything whatsoever into any lake, pool, stream or fountain, or in any manner
disturb waterfowl, birds or animals, on or within park premises or property.
   (N)   Cycles and horses. No person shall use or ride any bicycle, motorcycle
or horse on any walk or footpath on or within park premises or property, except
on paths or roads provided for that purpose.
   (O)   Conduct. Loud, boisterous, threatening, insulting or indecent talk,
language or noise, or disorderly conduct or behavior of any kind, or any act in
breach of the public peace, is prohibited on or within park premises or
property.
   (P)   Signs. Signs posted by the city on or within park premises or property
shall be complied with by all persons entering upon park premises.
   (Q)   Permits.
      (1)   All permissions and consents issued and granted by the Manager
shall be subject to these rules and regulations, the same as though these rules
and regulations were fully set forth in each permit or consent.
      (2)   Every person claiming to have a permit or consent from the City
Manager shall produce and exhibit the permit or consent upon the request of any
official or employee of the city, and the official or employee shall have the
right to examine same.
   (R)   Closing and opening.
      (1)   Park premises shall close at dusk unless otherwise posted.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain within any park premises property
after that time, or enter any park premises or property before sunrise, except
with the written permission of the Manager or his or her designee.
      (3)   DUSK is defined as one hour after sunset.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 92-49, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 00-20, passed 6-26-
2000) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Board, see §§
33.01 through
33.06
§ 94.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY IN PARKS.
   The traffic laws of the city shall apply to the use and operation of motor
vehicles on or within park premises, and on or within premises owned, leased or
operated by the city for recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see
Title VII
§ 94.03 ATHLETIC FIELD FEES.
   (A)   As established annually by the City Manager, there shall be a fee for
any athletic teams/organizations which schedule the use of either a Madeira
Park Facility or Field or the Madeira High School Stadium. Fees shall be
imposed to include, but are not limited to, recreational sports programs,
individual teams, also known as “select teams”, and recreational leagues which
schedule the use of Madeira Parks or the Madeira High School Stadium. Field
fees can be based on the number of players and/or the amount of scheduled field
time.
   (B)   Such fee shall be established in conjunction with the annual budget
process and shall be made available for the next year’s sports seasons.
   (C)   Each recreation sports association and “select teams” shall be
responsible for the collection and payment of the fee to the city after
registrations have been completed. Fees shall be due and paid no later than 30
calendar days from the closing date of registrations.
   (D)   Each recreation sports association and “select teams” shall submit to
the office of the City Manager or designee a list of participants who have
registered with each organization or team.
   (E)   (1)   The fee shall be waived for any player who is being permitted to
play by the corresponding association due to financial hardship or for any
families who are given reduced fees as a result of multiple players under the
policy of those associations.
      (2)   Example: if an association awards a third child to play at no cost,
then no player fee will be imposed on the third child.
      (3)   If the policy of the association reduces the fee for multiple
players, the city’s fee will be reduced by the same percentage.
   (F)   All fees collected hereunder shall be receipted into the SR-45 Parks
and Recreation Events Fund.
   (G)   Failure to file the list of players and/or pay the required fees by
the recreation sports associations or “select teams” will result in forfeiture
of the use of the fields until all fees have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 05-26, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 18-09, passed 1-14-
2019; Ord. 24-07, passed 9-9-2024) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 RECREATION FIELD MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   From time to time the city may officially close certain recreation
fields due to weather, maintenance requirements or other reason determined by
the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   No person shall enter upon any recreation field that has been
designated as closed by the posting of a sign on or within the recreation field
property or premises.
   (C)   In addition to any penalties applicable under this chapter, it shall
be the policy of the city that any person who enters upon any recreation field
that has been designated as closed and thereby causes damage to the recreation
field, as determined by the City Manager, shall be prohibited from using any
and all park facilities until full restitution has been made to the city, as
determined by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 06-29, passed 8-28-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 COMPREHENSIVE PARK AND RECREATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   A comprehensive park and recreation plan attached to Ordinance 1046
and made a part thereof is approved and adopted as part of the already existing
comprehensive plan for the city.
   (B)   Council empowers and directs both the City Planning Commission and the
City Manager to take all necessary steps to implement the comprehensive park
and recreation plan adopted, and to take all necessary steps to obtain grants
from either or both the federal or state government.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 1046, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Board, see §§
33.01 through
33.06
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $150.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Removal of trees within street right-of-way
   
95.02   Owner to bear cost of removal
   
95.03   Determination of hazard by City Manager
   
95.04   Prohibiting planting certain trees
Public Tree Care Program
   
95.15   Purpose
   
95.16   Definitions
   
95.17   Authority and power
   
95.18   Tree planting and care standards
   
95.19   Prohibition against harming public trees
   
95.20   Adjacent owner responsibility
   
95.21   Certain trees declared a nuisance
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 REMOVAL OF TREES WITHIN STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Every owner, lessee or occupant of real property in the city shall
promptly remove or cause to be removed any tree standing within such portion of
the street right-of-way abutting his or her property as is contained within the
side lines of the property projected to the centerline of the right-of-way,
when the tree is a hazard to any person using the right-of-way or to any
property, real or personal, in the vicinity. The side lines shall be such as
meet or intersect the side line of the abutting right-of-way.
   (B)   When part of a tree constitutes the hazard, and the hazard can be
eliminated by removing such part, the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property abutting the portion of the street right-of-way within which the tree
stands shall promptly remove such part, or cause the same to be removed.
   (C)   When any tree, or part thereof, lies fallen within any portion of any
right-of-way, the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property abutting such
portion shall promptly remove the tree, or part thereof, or cause the same to
be removed, except where the tree, or part thereof, shall have been felled by
another whose duty it is to remove the same pursuant to the requirements of
this chapter.
   (D)   A tree, or part thereof, shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be
deemed a nuisance or hazard if it is dead, or if it is in danger of falling,
or, if in blocking the view of drivers of motor vehicles it significantly
reduces the safety of persons using any right-of-way.
   (E)   For purposes of this chapter STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY shall mean the entire
area of any duly dedicated street right-of-way, including all unimproved,
sodded or otherwise unsurfaced portions thereof, as well as the improved
portions, and shall include the entire area, improved and unimproved, of
easements used by the public for vehicular or pedestrian travel.
   (F)   REMOVAL shall mean removal from the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalk construction, see §
93.035 through
93.055
§ 95.02 OWNER TO BEAR COST OF REMOVAL.
   When the City Manager issues a written order or certification for the
removal of any tree, or part thereof, as referred to in §
95.01, the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises at the time of the
required removal shall bear the full cost of removal.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 DETERMINATION OF HAZARD BY CITY MANAGER.
   Determination by the City Manager that any condition exists that is a
hazard, and his or her determination of the amount constituting the reasonable
cost of removal, shall be conclusive for the purposes of this chapter, but the
requirements of §
95.01 shall apply whether or not any determination is made or any order is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 PROHIBITING PLANTING CERTAIN TREES.
   (A)   It shall be illegal to plant or have planted trees or shrubbery of the
silver maple (Acer saccharinum) species and all varieties of the poplars
(Populus) and willows (Salix) within the street right-of-way or between the
sidewalk and street by the owner, lessee or occupant of the property within the
city.
   (B)   If any trees or shrubbery of the above mentioned varieties are planted
after November 5, 1973, within the street right-of-way or between the sidewalk
and street by the owner, lessee or occupant, the trees or shrubbery shall be
removed within 60 days upon receipt of notice by certified mail from the City
Manager.
   (C)   When anyone fails to comply with the notice for removal of the above
mentioned varieties of trees and shrubbery, the city shall have the trees and
shrubbery removed, and the costs of removal shall be charged to the owner,
lessee or occupant of the property.
   (D)   When anyone fails to pay the charges for removal of the above
mentioned varieties of trees and shrubbery within 60 days after receipt of the
notice of charges by certified mail from the City Manager, the owner, lessee or
occupant who has violated any of this section shall be cited to the Mayor’s
Court, and, if found guilty, shall be fined.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 1132, passed 11-5-1973) Penalty, see §
95.99
PUBLIC TREE CARE PROGRAM
§ 95.15 PURPOSE.
   To enhance the quality of life and the present and future health, safety and
welfare of all citizens, to enhance property values, and to ensure proper
planting and care of trees on public property, City Council herein delegates
the authority and responsibility for managing street trees, establishes
practices governing the planting and care of trees on public property and makes
provision for the emergency removal of trees on private property under certain
conditions.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 95.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGE. Any injury to or destruction of a tree, including, but not limited
to: uprooting, severance of all or part of the root system or main trunk,
storage of material on or compaction of surrounding soil; a substantial change
in the natural grade above a root system or around a trunk; surrounding the
tree with impervious paving materials; or any trauma caused by accident or
collision.
   NUISANCE. Any tree, or limb thereof, that has an infectious disease or
insect; is dead or dying; obstructs the view of traffic signs or the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or threatens public health, safety and
welfare.
   PARKWAY. The area along a public street between the curb and the sidewalk;
or if there is no curb or sidewalk, the unpaved portion on the area between the
street right-of-way line and the paved portion of the street of alley.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All grounds and rights-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained by
the city.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree or woody vegetation on city-owned or city-maintained
property or rights-of-way.
   TOP or TOPPING. The non-standard practice of cutting back of limbs to stubs
within a tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 95.17 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   (A)   Delegation of authority and responsibility. The City Manager, and/or
his or her designee, shall have full authority and responsibility to plant,
prune, maintain and remove trees and woody plants growing in or upon all
municipal streets, rights-of-way, city parks and other public property. This
shall include the removal of trees that may threaten electrical, telephone, gas
or any municipal water or sewer line, or any tree that is affected by fungus,
insect or other pest disease.
   (B)   Coordination among city departments. All city departments will
coordinate as necessary with the City Manager and will provide services as
required to ensure compliance with this subchapter as it relates to streets,
alleys, rights-of-way, drainage, easements and other public properties.
   (C)   Interference. No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with
the City Manager or his or her agents while engaged in carrying out the
execution or enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 TREE PLANTING AND CARE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. All planting and maintenance of public trees shall conform
to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 “Standards for Tree
Care Operations” and shall follow all tree care Best Management Practices
(BMPs) published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (B)   Requirements of franchise utility companies. The maintenance of public
trees for utility clearance shall conform to all applicable utility industry
standards.
   (C)   Tree species list. The City Manager shall develop and maintain an
official list of desirable tree species for planting on public property in two
size classes: ornamental (20 feet or less in height at maturity) and shade
(greater than 20 feet at maturity). Only trees from this approved list may be
planted without written approval from the City Manager.
   (D)   Planting distances. The City Manager shall develop and maintain an
official set of spacing requirements for the planting of trees on public
property. No tree may be planted within the visibility triangle of a street
intersection or within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
   (E)   Planting trees under electricity utility lines. Only trees listed as
ornamental trees on the official city tree species list may be planted under or
within 15 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
   (F)   Protection of public trees during construction. Any person, firm,
corporation or city department performing construction near any public tree
must employ appropriate measures to protect the tree, including, but not
limited to, placing barriers around the tree to prevent damage.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 PROHIBITION AGAINST HARMING PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage,
remove, or cause the damage or removal of a tree on a public property without
written permission from the City Manager.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach any
cable, wire or signs to any other object to any street, park or public tree.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to “top” any
public tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, where pruning
practices are impractical, may be exempted from this provision at the
determination of the City Manager.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 ADJACENT OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner of the land adjacent to any city street or highway, when
acting within the provisions of this subchapter, may plant and maintain trees
in the adjacent parkway area. Property owners are responsible for the
reasonable and routine maintenance of trees and other landscaping in the
adjacent parkway area.
   (B)   No property owner shall allow a tree, or other plant growing on his or
her property or within the adjacent parkway to obstruct or interfere with
pedestrians or the view of drivers, thereby creating a hazard. If an
obstruction persists, the City Manager shall notify the property owner to prune
or remove the tree or plant. If the owner fails to comply with the notice, the
city may undertake the necessary work to remove such obstruction or
interference and charge the cost to the property owner.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 CERTAIN TREES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any tree or limb thereof, on private property determined by the City
Manager to have contracted a lethal, communicable disease or insect; to be dead
or dying; to obstruct the view of traffic signs or the free passage of
pedestrians or vehicles; or that threatens public health, safety and welfare is
declared a nuisance and the city may require its treatment or removal.
   (B)   Private property owners have the duty, at their own expense, to remove
or treat nuisance trees on their property. The city may remove such trees at
the owner’s expense if the owner does not comply with the treatment and/or
removal as specified by the City Manager with the written notification period.
(Ord. 20-09, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$50, and each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
95.04(D) shall be fined not more than $50 plus the charge for removal of the
varieties of trees and shrubbery as mentioned in §
95.04.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
95.15 through
95.21 shall be deemed guilty of misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) Program (Ord. 1132, passed 11-5-1973; Ord. 20-09, passed
9-28-2020)
CHAPTER 96: WATERS AND WATERCOURSES
Section
Waters
   
96.01   Abandoned wells and stagnant water
   
96.02   Artificial hole, well shaft or pit
   
96.03   Exceptions for current excavations
Watercourses
   
96.15   Removal of debris and obstructions
   
96.16   Notice to remove obstructions
   
96.17   Notice to owners by mail
 
   
96.99   Penalty
WATERS
§ 96.01 ABANDONED WELLS AND STAGNANT WATER.
   No person being the owner, part owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge
of land within the city shall permit any stagnant water to stand, or abandoned
well or water-containing hole or other depression to exist greater in depth
than in any ground surface dimension thereon for more than 30 days after the
date of passage of this section, or the date that the person becomes the owner,
part owner, lessee, agent, or tenant, or for more than ten days after the date
on which any well is abandoned or any water first stagnates, or any water first
accumulates, develops or comes into existence in any such hole or depression,
whichever is later, without either draining the same and compactly filling with
solid matter, or securely covering and capping and so maintaining during all
times in which not put to active use.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 ARTIFICIAL HOLE, WELL SHAFT OR PIT.
   No person being the owner, part owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge
of land within the city shall permit any artificial hole, well shaft or other
shaft or pit greater in depth than in any ground surface dimension to exist
thereon for more than 30 days after the person becomes the owner, part owner,
lessee, agent or tenant, or for more than ten days after the date on which the
digging of any such hole, well shaft or other shaft or pit begins, whichever is
later, without either compactly filling the same with solid matter, or securely
covering and capping and so maintaining during all times in which not put to
active use.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS FOR CURRENT EXCAVATIONS.
   Sections
96.01 and
96.02 shall not apply to excavations incident to construction work under
current or active prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) Penalty, see §
96.99
WATERCOURSES
§ 96.15 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Every person, natural or artificial, having the right to possession, alone
or in common with others, of privately owned real property located within the
city shall promptly remove from any and all natural watercourses traversing any
part of his or her property, and from the banks of the watercourses, any and
all matter which at any time substantially obstructs the natural flow of water
therein to an extent that it is, or is likely to be, a substantial contributing
factor to the backup and overflow of water, whether in time of flood or of
normal flow, upon the property of any other person or of the public. For
purposes of this section, MATTER shall, without prejudice to the generality of
the foregoing, be held to include debris, whether of natural or artificial
accumulation, drift, rocks, structures, roots, trees and growths of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 96.15) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 NOTICE TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No person shall fail to remove any such matter within ten days after
receiving a written notice from the City Manager, identifying the location and
nature of the matter, and ordering its immediate removal.
(Prior Code, § 96.16) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 NOTICE TO OWNERS BY MAIL.
   The person shall be deemed to have received notice if a copy thereof is
delivered to the person personally, or is left at the usual place of residence
of the person within the city by the City Manager, or, if the person is not a
resident of the city, but resides at a known address, if a copy of the notice
is sent to such address by the City Manager by certified mail. The City Manager
shall make return of the service, showing the time and manner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 96.17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
96.01 through
96.03 shall be fined not to exceed $150, and each day that the person remains
in violation of such sections by continuing to fail to comply with its
requirements shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
96.15 through
96.17, or fails to comply with the notice as provided therein, shall be fined
not more than $150 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 97: INCOME TAX
Section
   
97.01   Authority to levy tax
   
97.02   Purposes of tax; rate
   
97.03   Allocation of funds
   
97.04   Applicability and effective date
   
97.05   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
97.06   Definitions
   
97.07   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
97.08   Domicile
   
97.09   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain judges
   
97.10   Collection at source; withholding from wages
   
97.11   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
97.12   Collection at source; casino and VLT
   
97.13   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
97.14   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative apportionment
   
97.15   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
97.16   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
   
97.17   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
97.18   Declaration of estimated tax
   
97.19   Credit for tax paid to another municipality or joint economic district
   
97.20   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
97.21   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
97.22   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
97.23   Return and payment of tax
   
97.24   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
97.25   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
97.26   Extension of time to file
   
97.27   Amended returns
   
97.28   Refunds
   
97.29   Taxpayer election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95
   
97.30   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
97.31   Audit
   
97.32   Rounding
   
97.33   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
97.34   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
97.35   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
   
97.36   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
97.37   Confidentiality
   
97.38   Fraud
   
97.39   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
97.40   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
97.41   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
97.42   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
97.43   Adoption of rules
   
97.44   Landlord reporting requirement
   
97.45   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
97.46   Savings clause
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
97 are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter 97 are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
   (C)   The income tax at the rate of 1% shall be levied, collected and paid
with respect to the qualifying wages, commissions and other compensation earned
or deemed to be received on or after January 1, 2018, and with respect to the
net profits of business, professions or other activities earned on or after
January 1, 2018. The income tax rate of 1% shall be levied, collected and paid
with respect to: all prizes, awards, sweepstakes or other income associated
with any lottery winnings, gambling and sports winnings, or other similar games
of chance; and all prizes, awards and winnings paid to residents of the
municipality by state lottery commissions.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.011)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 97.02 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   A municipal income tax is hereby levied to provide funds for the
purposes of general municipal operations, maintenance, new equipment, extension
and enlargement of municipal services and facilities, and the capital
improvements of the municipality at the rate of 1% there shall be, and is
levied a tax on qualifying wages, commissions and other compensation, and on
net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected and paid
with respect to all income and net profits subject to the tax earned during the
annual periods commencing January 1, 1979, and thereafter, at the rate of 1%.
(Prior Code, § 97.01) (Ord. 00-29, passed 12-11-2000; Ord. 04-23, passed 6-28-
2004; Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 97.03 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 97.12) (Ord. 00-29, passed 12-11-2000; Ord. 04-23, passed 6-28-
2004; Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.013)
§ 97.04 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The effective date of the provisions of this Chapter 97 shall be
January 1, 2018, and shall apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2018.
   (B)   The enactment of this Chapter 97 does not repeal the existing sections
of Chapter 97 for any taxable year prior to 2018, but rather amends Chapter 97
effective January 1, 2018. For municipal taxable years beginning before January
1, 2018, the municipality shall continue to administer, audit and enforce the
income tax of the municipality codes Chapter 97 and R.C. Chapter 718 as it
existed before January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 97.05 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 49, passed by the 132nd General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on June 30, 2017, and H.B. 49 required municipal corporations
to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in order to have the
authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 49, municipal income tax Ordinance 18-02,
effective January 1, 2018, comprehensively amends Chapter 97 in accordance with
the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue the
income tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf
of the municipality.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.02)
§ 97.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(23)(d) of this section, means a C corporation’s federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange or other disposition of property
described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in § 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange or other disposition of
an asset described in § 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
            2.   Division (C)(1)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in § 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   a.   Except as limited by divisions (C)(1)(h)2., (C)(1)
(h)3. and (C)(1)(h)4. of this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred
by the person in a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               b.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted
from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to
reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of
the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive
taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in
no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(1)
(h) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (C)(1)
(h)1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (C)(1)(h)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
this division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
            6.   Any person utilizing a post-2017 net operating loss
carryforward deduction shall submit with the return reflecting said deduction a
schedule detailing the calculation and application of the net operating loss
carryforward.
            7.   No portion of a net operating loss shall be carried back
against net profits of any prior year.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
97.15(E)(3)(b) of this chapter.
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
97.15(E)(3)(b) of this chapter.
         (k)   Add any deduction for pass-through entity not allowed as a
deduction for C corporation under the Internal Revenue Code.
         (l)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in this chapter, is not a publicly
traded partnership that has made the election described in division (C)(23)(d)
of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted
federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C
corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member
or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such
payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of
interest under § 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury
regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement
plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for
life insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
         (m)   Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as
allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   Means any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
97.28(B)(2) of this chapter;
            3.   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
97.14(B)(2) of this chapter; or
            4.   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
97.14(B)(3) of this chapter.
            5.   For purposes of division (C)(2)(a)1., (C)(2)(a)2., (C)(2)(a)3.
and (C)(2)(a)4. of this definition, an assessment shall commence the person’s
time limitation for making an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant
to §
97.41 of this chapter, and shall have ASSESSMENT written in all capital letters
at the top of such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
97.28(B)(3) of this chapter, a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of
current or past-due balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax
Administrator’s request for additional information, a notification to the
taxpayer of mathematical errors, or a Tax Administrator’s other written
correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does not meet the criteria
prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
      (3)   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW or BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. Has same meaning as Local
Board of Tax Review.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE
AND SIMILAR TERMS. Includes any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (9)   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary
or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (10)   DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   EXEMPT INCOME. Means all of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(b)2. of this
section, intangible income;
            2.   Intangible income, as described in division (C)(11)(o) of this
section.
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (C)(11)(c) of this
section, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         (f)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (C)(11)(i)
does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(34) of this section;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States air force base under the jurisdiction of the United States air
force that is used for the housing of members of the United States air force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         (o)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age;
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(11)(p)2., (C)(11)(p)3.
and (C)(11)(p)4. of this definition, qualifying wages described in §
97.11(B)(1) or (E) of this chapter to the extent the qualifying wages are not
subject to withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
97.11(D)(2) of this chapter.
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in division§
97.11(B)(1) of this chapter, the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax
on the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s
principal place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
97.11(E) of this chapter, the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on
the qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed
location is located; and
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(11)(p)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(q)2. or (C)(11)(q)3.
of this definition, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a
nonresident individual for personal services performed in the municipality on
not more than 20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(q)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipality; and
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(11)
(q)2.b. of this section, “professional athlete”, “professional entertainer” and
“public figure” have the same meanings as in §
97.11 of this chapter.
            3.   Compensation to which this division (C)(11)(q) applies shall
be treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of this division (C)(11)(q), BASE OF OPERATION
means the location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront or
similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the
individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence;
         (s)   If exempt for federal income tax purposes, fellowships,
scholarships, stipends and grants are also exempt from municipal taxable
income;
         (t)   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through
entity under this division (C)(11) is exempt income of each owner of the pass-
through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity’s income; and
         (u)   Taxation of income which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States.
      (12)   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (13)   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      (14)   INCOME. Means the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, prizes, awards, sweepstakes and other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling and sports winnings, or other similar games of
chance and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by the
resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(14)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(14)(a)4. of this section; and
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(14)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation; and
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer;
         (d)   For both resident and nonresident individuals, OTHER
COMPENSATION shall mean:
            1.   Tips, bonuses, gifts or prizes of any type connected with
employment or in lieu of pay, and including compensation received by domestic
servants, casual employees and other types of employees. These payments are
normally reported on a Form 1099 MISC;
            2.   If the income appears as part of Medicare wages on a W-2 form
and is not shown to be an exception in accordance with division (C)(11) of this
section, it shall be considered other compensation and is therefore taxable to
the individual. This includes, but is not limited to:
               a.   Payments made by an employer to an employee during periods
of absence from work are taxable when paid and at the tax rate in effect at the
time of payment, regardless of the fact that such payments may be labeled as
sick leave or sick pay, sick pay paid by the employer to the employee,
severance pay, supplemental unemployment benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of
the Internal Revenue Code, vacation pay, terminal pay, supplemental
unemployment pay, settlements, any pay as part of an employee buyout, wage and
salary continuation plans, payments made for the release of liability related
to termination of employment;
               b.   Tips, bonuses, fees, gifts in lieu of pay, gratuities;
               c.   Strike pay; grievance pay;
               d.   Employer paid premiums for group term life insurance to the
extent taxable for federal income tax purposes;
               e.   Car allowance, personal use of employer-provided vehicle;
               f.   Incentive payments, no matter how described, including, but
not limited to, payments to induce early retirement;
               g.   Contributions by an employee or on behalf of an employee,
from gross wages, into an employee or third party trust or pension plan as
permitted by any provision of the Internal Revenue Code that may be excludable
from gross wages for federal income tax purposes such as 401(k), 403(b) and 457
plans;
               h.   Nonqualified deferred compensation plans or programs
described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
               i.   Insurance agent termination payments and extended
termination payments. These payments are normally reported on a Form 1099 MISC.
            3.   Trust payments not made pursuant to employee’s retirement;
            4.   Where compensation is paid or received in property, its fair
market value at the time of receipt shall be subject to the tax and to
withholding.
               a.   Board, lodging or similar items received by an employee in
lieu of additional cash compensation shall be included in earnings at their
fair market value.
               b.   Restricted stock awards that vest over a period of time are
taxable at their fair market value at the time they become vested and included
in Medicare wages, as shown on the employee’s IRS Form W-2.
            5.   Fellowships, scholarships, stipends and grants, to the extent
that they are taxable for federal income tax purposes; and
            6.   For an individual, the ordinary gain from the sale of rental
real estate property. Any related ordinary loss from the sale of rental real
estate property shall be allowed.
      (15)   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits as those
terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks,
trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in
regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation.
INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated
with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
      (16)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Sta.
2085, 26 U.S.C. 1, as amended.
      (17)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed
under former R.C. Chapter 1705 as that chapter existed prior to February 11,
2022, R.C. Chapter 1706 or under the laws of another state.
      (18)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity
created under §
97.41 of this chapter.
      (19)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a
local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71 or 715.74.
      (20)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   Means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
97.14 of this chapter, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward available to the person for the municipality.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income,
then reduced as provided in division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
97.14 of this chapter, then reduced as provided in division (C)(20)(b) of this
section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(20)
(a)2.a. or (C)(20)(a)3. of this section, the amount of the individual’s
employee business expenses reported on the individual’s Form 2106 that the
individual deducted for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year,
subject to the limitation imposed by § 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may
deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may
deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the
taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal
corporation.
         (c)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(20)(a)2.
of this section, the amount of the individual’s employee moving expenses
reported on the individual’s federal Form 3903 for the taxable year. The
individual’s federal Form 3903 must be submitted with the municipal income tax
return for the deduction to be allowed. Only moving expenses incurred and
included as part of federal gross income shall be allowed.
         (d)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual and the taxpayer is a professional gambler for federal income tax
purposes, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(20)(a)2. of
this section, related wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized
under the Internal Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings.
      (21)   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Madeira that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71 or 715.74.
      (22)   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (23)   NET PROFIT.
         (a)   For a person other than an individual means adjusted federal
taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual’s net profit required to be reported on Schedule C, Schedule E or
Schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this definition the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated
and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)(1)(h) of this
section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(23)(a) of this section, NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in this division (C)(23)(d) shall
be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated
as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (C)(23)(d)4. of this section.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (C)(23)(d)3. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (C)(23)(d) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (24)   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (25)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created
under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply
forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and
payment system.
      (26)   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or
the employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (27)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (28)   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS Form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS Form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (29)   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities and any other entity.
      (30)   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (31)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK AND SIMILAR TERMS. Includes the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
      (32)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD.
         (a)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning
before January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution
or ordinance of the municipality that was adopted by the municipality before
January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net
profit generated in such municipality in future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (33)   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      (34)   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer; and
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock
purchased under a stock option. This division (C)(34)(b)2. applies only to
those amounts constituting ordinary income;
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in § 401(k), 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. This
division (C)(34)(b)3. applies only to employee contributions and employee
deferrals;
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either this division (C)(34)(b) or R.C. § 718.03, as
that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th General
Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (35)   RELATED ENTITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the
taxpayer’s outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(35)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock; and
         (d)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (35)(a) to (35)(c) of this section have been met.
      (36)   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or
from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a
person is a related member under this definition, “20%” shall be substituted
for “5%” wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (37)   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
97.08 of this chapter.
      (38)   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      (39)   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (43)   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (44)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
         (a)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         (b)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; and
         (c)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (45)   TAX COMMISSIONER. The tax commissioner appointed under R.C. §
121.03.
      (46)   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36) of
the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
      (47)   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (48)   TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, a disregarded entity or a qualifying subchapter S
subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, but TAXPAYER includes any other
person who owns the grantor trust, disregarded entity or qualifying subchapter
S subsidiary.
      (49)   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11 , 718.12 , 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011 and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      (51)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the
state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 97.07 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
97.06(C)(20)(b) of this chapter, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
97.06(C)(14) of this chapter.
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
97.06(C)(34).
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in INCOME, and is defined in §
97.06(C)(23) of this chapter. This section also provides that the net operating
loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as
provided in §
97.06(C)(1)(h). Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer
from rental real estate is provided in §
97.14(E).
            3.   Section
97.06(C)(14) provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in §
97.06(C)(14)(a)2.a.; resident’s distributive share of net profit from pass-
through entity treatment in §
97.06(C)(14)(a)2.b.; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
97.06(C)(14)(a)3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
97.06(C)(14)(a)4.
            4.   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
97.06(C)(27).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
97.06(C)(11) of this chapter.
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
97.06(C)(20)(b) of this chapter, and is subject to the limitations provided in
that section.
         (d)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
97.06(C)(32) of this chapter.
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
97.14 of this chapter, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction
as found in §
97.06(C)(20)(b) of this chapter, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
97.06(C)(14) of this chapter.
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
97.06(C)(34).
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in INCOME, and is defined in §
97.06(C)(23) of this chapter. This section also provides that the net operating
loss carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as
provided in §
97.06(C)(1)(h). NET PROFIT for a nonresident individual includes any net profit
of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss
of only pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            3.   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
97.06(C)(27).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
97.06(C)(11) of this chapter.
         (c)   APPORTIONED OR SITUSED TO THE MUNICIPALITY AS PROVIDED IN §
97.14 OF THIS CHAPTER includes the apportionment of net profit income
attributable to work done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment
of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is
provided in §
97.14(E).
         (d)   ALLOWABLE EMPLOYEE BUSINESS EXPENSE DEDUCTION as described in §
97.06(C)(20)(b) of this chapter, is subject to the limitations provided in that
section. For a nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the
extent the expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the
nonresident in the municipality.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
97.06(C)(32) of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.041)
Statutory reference:
   Computing municipal taxable income, see R.C. § 718.50 (A)(1)(b) and (A)(1)
(c)
§ 97.08 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return;
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year; and
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual’s residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located; and
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division (B)(9), an individual has one
“contact period” with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from
the individual’s abode located outside of the municipality and while away
overnight from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of
each of two consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section,
the state’s contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination
have no bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.042)
Statutory reference:
   Factors for determining whether individual is domiciled in municipal
corporation, see R.C. § 718.012
§ 97.09 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.043)
Statutory reference:
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 97.10 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality’s income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
97.11 of this chapter or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer,
agent of an employer or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from
qualifying wages on the date that the employer, agent or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(2)(b) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the last day of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter; and
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payments under this division (B)(2)
(b) shall be made so that the payment is postmarked not later than 15 days
after the last day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and file a
return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or other payer
from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division (C) shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
97.23 of this chapter.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (E)   (1) An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service Form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer’s control. For the purposes of this division (J), a tip or gratuity is
under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.051) Penalty,
see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 97.11 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section.
      (1)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   (a)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
         (b)   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the GREATEST NUMBER OF DAYS IN A CALENDAR YEAR performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two
or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division (A)(7)
shall be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those
qualifying wages for the purposes of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this division (A)(7), the location at which
an employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division
(B)(2) of this section, except that LOCATION shall be substituted for
“municipal corporation” wherever MUNICIPAL CORPORATION appears in that
division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F) and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipality;
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division (B)(1)(b),
PRESUMED WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services that can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar
year. Services can REASONABLY BE EXPECTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO LAST MORE THAN 20
DAYS if either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; or
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in §
97.10 of this chapter.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee’s principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee’s employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; and
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1) Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if, during
a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold described in
division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and remit tax to
that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that calendar year on
which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
97.06 of this chapter. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small
employer for a taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to
provide the Tax Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for
the preceding taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
97.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.052)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
§ 97.12 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in § 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. § 3772.01,
respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery terminals sales
on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income tax with respect
to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this section.
   (B)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address and social security number of the person from whose
winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such deduction
and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of the winnings
from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino gaming that
resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by the Tax
Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit electronically
to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding
month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file an
annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total
amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino
operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was
deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name,
address or social security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue an
information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division (C)(3). The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   (a)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise
quits the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any
penalties and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor
shall withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
            1.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; and
            2.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
         (b)   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor
is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by § 6041 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under this division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address or social security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each information return
issued under this division (E). The Tax Administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   (1)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; and
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
      (2)   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; and
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   (1)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal
corporation shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by
the municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
97.18 of this chapter.
      (2)   This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.053)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
§ 97.13 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for
the municipality is calculated as follows.
   (B)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   INCOME for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the NET
PROFIT of the taxpayer.
         (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual is defined in §
97.06(C)(23).
         (b)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME is defined in §
97.06(C)(1) of this chapter.
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
97.06(C)(11) of this chapter.
      (3)   APPORTIONMENT means the apportionment as determined by §
97.14 of this chapter.
      (4)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
97.06(C)(32) of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.061)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 97.14 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   (a)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated; and
         (b)   As used in division (A)(1)(a) of this section, tangible personal
or real property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and
the value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental
thereon by eight.
      (2)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
97.11 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality; and
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
97.42(A) of this chapter.
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
97.42(A) of this chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, WAGES, SALARIES AND OTHER
COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to or under
the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; and
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; and
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows.
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title passes,
the property meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   (1)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the
rental of real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded
entity owned by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located and the
municipal corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net
profit resides.
      (2)   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division (E) to the municipal corporation in which the property is
located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
97.19 of this chapter.
   (G)   (1)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income,
the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
97.06(C)(11)(l) and (C)(34)(a)3. of this chapter, by a municipal corporation to
which the taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer
shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit
that was apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer
be required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
      (2)   This division (G) applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.062)
Statutory reference:
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 97.15 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in § 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group
includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year:
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3) and (E)
(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
97.06(C)(1) of this chapter, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable
income” for “federal taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears
in that division and by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for
“a C corporation’s” wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
97.06(C)(1) of this chapter to the extent that the item of income or deduction
otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
97.14 of this chapter, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so
excluded, the entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the
basis of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
97.14 of this chapter, include the property, payroll and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so
included, the entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on
the basis of the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
97.14 of this chapter, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the
pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
97.14 of this chapter by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income
attributable to” for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in
that section and by substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for
“taxpayer” wherever “taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.063)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
§ 97.16 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.064)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
§ 97.17 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.065)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.151
§ 97.18 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division (B)
(1)(b), DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on
the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator, a video lottery sales
agent, or a type B sports gaming proprietor under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to
be paid to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld on the
date the taxes are withheld from the taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
97.23(G) of this chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month
of the first taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the
first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the first month of the
following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year. For a
person other than an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth
month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in division (C)(1)(a)
through (C)(1)(d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
97.23 of this chapter.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
97.30 of this chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (E) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
97.23 of this chapter for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.07)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing, see R.C. § 718.05
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 97.19 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY OR JOINT ECONOMIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Resident individual.
      (1)   An individual taxpayer who resides in the municipality, and earns
qualifying wages for work done or services performed or rendered in any
municipal corporation, shall be allowed a credit not to exceed 0.70 of 1% in
the amount of municipal income tax paid by or on behalf of that individual if
it is demonstrated that a municipal income tax has been so paid. Such credit
shall be allowed only to the extent of the tax assessed by this chapter.
      (2)   An individual taxpayer who resides in the municipality, and
receives or wins prizes, awards, sweepstakes and other income associated with
any lottery winnings, gambling and sports winnings, or other similar games of
chance in any municipal corporation shall be allowed a credit not to exceed
0.70 of 1% in the amount of municipal income tax paid by or on behalf of that
individual if it is demonstrated that a municipal income tax has been so paid.
Such credit shall be allowed only to the extent of the tax assessed by this
chapter.
      (3)   A resident individual with income from an ownership interest in one
or more pass-through entities, activities of a sole proprietor or rental
activities, after the deduction of distributable losses from other pass-through
entities or business activities not utilized as a net operating loss carry-
forward in any municipal taxing jurisdiction after January 1, 2026, shall be
allowed a credit not to exceed 0.70 of 1% in a non-refundable credit for the
amount so paid by or on behalf of the resident individual in such other
municipal corporation only to the extent of the tax assessed by this chapter.
      (4)   The credit for tax paid by a resident individual for salaries or
wages earned in a nonresident municipal corporation is limited to 0.70 of 1% of
the tax that is paid after all allowable 2106 expenses have been deducted and
shall not exceed the tax established by this chapter.
      (5)   No credit shall be given to a resident individual for any county or
school district income tax.
      (6)   The annual amount of revenue generated by 0.2% of the reduced tax
credit shall, after allocation to the General Fund, be transferred to the SR21
Street Fund to be used only for capital improvement and maintenance projects as
identified in the SR21 Fund Budget.
   (B)   Nonresident individual.
      (1)   Every individual taxpayer who is a nonresident of the municipality
who earned qualifying wages for work done or services performed or rendered in
the municipality, shall be allowed a credit for the amount so paid if it is
demonstrated that a municipal income tax has been paid by or on behalf of that
individual. Such credit shall be applied only to the extent of the tax assessed
by this chapter.
      (2)   A nonresident individual with ownership interest in one or more
pass-through entities taxed at the entity level shall not report said income or
losses on a nonresident individual annual return and shall not be allowed any
credit for taxes paid on their behalf by the pass-through entity to any
municipal corporation.
      (3)   No credit shall be given to a nonresident individual for any county
or school district income tax.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.081; Ord. 20-
02, passed 3-9-2020; Ord. 25-01, passed 2-10-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period allowed for refund, see
R.C. § 718.012
§ 97.20 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer’s receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the “qualifying loss” is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.082)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.17
§ 97.21 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit not to exceed 0.90 of 1% against its tax
on income to a resident of the municipality who works in a joint economic
development zone created under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development
district created under R.C. § 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that
it grants a credit not to exceed 0.90 of 1% against its tax on income to its
residents who are employed in another municipal corporation, pursuant to §
97.19 of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.083)
Statutory reference:
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 97.22 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
97.28 of this chapter.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
97.28, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
97.28 of this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section
97.19 of this chapter regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.084)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
§ 97.23 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
97.10(C) of this chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole income
subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of
an employer, or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged
with the care of the person or property of that individual shall provide, with
the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support that they are
authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer. This notice
shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact information
including name, address and phone number of the duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
Form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041, Form 1065, Form 1120, Form 1120-
REIT, Form 1120F or Form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (F) to the
Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway or a portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall
publish a method of electronically submitting the documents required under this
division (F) through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016.
The department shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this
division to the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(F) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
97.24 of this chapter applies, to the extent that any provision in this
division conflicts with any provision in §
97.24 of this chapter, the provision in §
97.24 of this chapter prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) of
this section.
   (I)   This division (I) shall not apply to payments required to be made
under §
97.10(B)(2)(b) of this chapter.
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement or other document is required to be filed, or to which
the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the report, claim, statement or other document, or payment is
mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment. THE
DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover,
the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment shall be considered to be made on the date of the time stamp
assigned by the first electronic system receiving that payment.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
97.10 of this chapter shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as
credits against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts
withheld were not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with
the employer, agent or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns, reports
or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, WORKSITE LOCATION has the same meaning
as in §
97.11 of this chapter.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter; and
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
      (3)   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules.” The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
      (4)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.091)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 97.24 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms
as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1) Nothing in this division (C) denies to any person described in
this division (C) the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time in which
to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter. The length of any extension granted under this division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B) or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.092)
Statutory reference:
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
§ 97.25 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The state shall not be a party to
the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a municipal
income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.093)
Statutory reference:
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 97.26 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the
eleventh month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return
relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.094)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 97.27 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
97.42 of this chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the period prescribed by §
97.42(A)(2) of this chapter for filing the amended return even if it is filed
beyond the period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the
requirements of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no
refund need be paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in
division (C)(2) of this section, a request filed under this division (C) shall
claim refund of overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return
that are affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within
the time prescribed in §
97.28 of this chapter. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section,
the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations or attachments
that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.095)
Statutory reference:
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 97.28 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
97.41 of this chapter.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; and
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
97.30(A)(4) of this chapter.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
97.30 of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.096)
Statutory reference:
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
§ 97.29 TAXPAYER ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO R.C. §§ 718.80 TO 718.95.
   (A)   (1) A taxpayer may elect to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 by
making the initial election with the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner. A taxpayer
shall make the initial election on or before the first day of the third month
after the beginning of the taxpayer’s taxable year by notifying the State of
Ohio Tax Commissioner and each municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
conducted business during the previous taxable year, on a form prescribed by
the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   (a)   The election, once made by the taxpayer, applies to the
taxable year in which the election is made and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner and each
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducted business during the
previous taxable year of its termination of the election.
         (b)   A notification of termination shall be made, on a form
prescribed by the State of Ohio Tax Commissioner, on or before the first day of
the third month of any taxable year.
         (c)   Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the
taxpayer is no longer subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95, and is instead
subject to the provisions set forth in the remainder of R.C. Chapter 718 in
addition to the remainder of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the taxpayer’s election, both of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The State of Ohio Tax Commissioner shall serve as the sole
administrator of each municipal income tax for which the taxpayer is liable for
the term of the election; and
      (2)   The State of Ohio Tax Commissioner shall administer the tax
pursuant to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 and any applicable provision of R.C.
Chapter 5703.
   (C)   This section is effective for taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.097)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see R.C. § 718.80
§ 97.30 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW. This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by the municipality provided such
resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the Internal
Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income
tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION. The
federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus 5%.
The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year
in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with division
(A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid
by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the
date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee’s qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent or other payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as “interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section”, per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition
of interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty not exceeding
50% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality shall impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer or any other payer the municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.10)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 97.31 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
97.06(C)(3) of this chapter, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the
taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the
taxpayer during an audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including
any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the
commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when
the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division (C) does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.11)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 97.32 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.12)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 97.33 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
97.14 of this chapter;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
97.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.131)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
§ 97.34 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; and
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.132)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
§ 97.35 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division (C) does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.133)
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
§ 97.36 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s social security number, federal employer identification
number or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
97.30 of this chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
97.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
97.30 of this chapter.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
97.99 of this chapter for a violation of §
97.38 of this chapter, and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator by law.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.134)
Statutory reference:
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 97.37 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
Charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
   (C)   As used in this section, INCOME TAX DEPARTMENT means the office
administering this chapter.
      (1)   All employees of the municipality’s Income Tax Department shall
maintain complete confidentiality over all data and statistical information
compiled by them in their capacity as employees of the municipality Income Tax
Department, subject to the exceptions provided for in this section. This
section shall apply only to the municipality income tax, and not to any other
tax data gathered by such employees in the normal course of their employment.
All confidential information may be subject to court order or subpoena, or may
be disclosed upon a proper release executed by the affected taxpayer.
      (2)   The following statistical data may be transmitted to another
municipality department for internal administrative purposes: information that
may be obtained from a separate source, including names, addresses and
telephone numbers.
      (3)   The following statistical data may be transmitted to another
municipality department for internal administrative purposes: data regarding
the collective payroll withholding taxes of a business entity located within
the municipality, as long as such business entity involves more than one
individual for whom the withholding tax payments are being generated.
      (4)   The following statistical data may be transmitted to another
municipality department for internal administrative purposes: data regarding
the number of employees and the total payroll taxes generated by all employees
of a business entity located within the municipality as long as the business
entity employs more than one individual at any time. This data shall only
include the total number of employees and the combined total payroll taxes, and
shall not include earnings or payroll taxes of individual employees of such
business entity.
      (5)   No employee of the municipality Income Tax Department shall
disclose to the general public or to any other municipality department data
concerning individual earnings or profits earned by an individual or by a
business entity. No statistical or administrative data shall be disseminated or
disclosed to members of the general public.
      (6)   Upon proper release, individual data, including confidential data,
may be released. The municipality’s Income Tax Department shall maintain a copy
of the release after such data has been disclosed.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.14) Penalty,
see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 97.38 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.15) Penalty,
see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 97.39 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G) and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law or the municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law or the municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; and
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
97.38 of this chapter.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.16)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Administrator; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 97.40 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division (B). A person disputing the presumption of
delivery and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent
was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the
purposes of this section, a person is associated with an address at the time
the Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the
person was residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the
address; or if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the
address and, when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s
affiliate was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this
section, a person’
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
(B) prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.17)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 97.41 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. The
three members of the Local Board of Tax Review may be domiciled in the
municipality, but the appointing authority may consider membership from
individuals who are not domiciled within the municipality. Two members shall be
appointed by the legislative authority of the municipality, and may not be
employees, elected officials or contractors with the municipality at any time
during their term or in the five years immediately preceding the date of
appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top administrative official
of the municipality. This member may be an employee of the municipality, but
may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax
Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly involved in
municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.18)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 97.42 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
97.41 of this chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding or holding by any administrative body or court that the Local
Board of Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not
have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part of
that assessment; and
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be reported,
prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission of the
offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
97.28 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
97.41 of this chapter, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which
the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the
amount due from the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than
the amount paid, there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s
assigns or legal representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as
provided by §
97.28 of this chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D)
of this section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; and
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.19)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 97.43 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.20)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 97.44 LANDLORD REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after a new tenant occupies rental property of any kind
within the municipality all owners of single-family or multi-family owned
rental properties, owners and management companies of apartments, office
complexes, mobile home parks and warehouse operations are required to remit to
the municipality a report showing the names, addresses, telephone numbers, and
the date of occupancy of each such tenant who occupy rental property within the
municipality. The municipality may request verification of tenants monthly,
quarterly or annually.
   (B)   Within 30 days after a tenant vacates rental property of any kind
within the municipality all owners of single-family or multi-family owned
rental property, owners and management companies of apartments, office
complexes, mobile home parks and warehouse operations are required to remit to
the municipality city’s Tax Office a report showing the date of vacation from
the rental property and a forwarding address, if known.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.30)
§ 97.45 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
97.42.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
97.23 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.97)
§ 97.46 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.98)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
§§
97.38 of this chapter, 97.37(A) or 97.10 of this chapter by failing to remit
municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an employee, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both. In
addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge
from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code §§ 7213(a), 7213A or 7431
shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
97.37(A) of this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which
violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct and/or omissions:
         (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration
required by this chapter;
         (b)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
         (c)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
         (d)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality municipal corporation as
required by §
97.10;
         (e)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
         (f)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and
state income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net
profits of a taxpayer;
         (g)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
or her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (h)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
         (i)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (j)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
         (k)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
         (l)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter; or
         (m)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify a
culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition to
the meaning prescribed in §
97.06, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 16-09, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 18-02, passed 3-18-2018, § 97.99)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
CHAPTER 98: ADMISSIONS TAX
Section
   
98.01   Purpose and effective period
   
98.02   Rate of tax
   
98.03   Collection
   
98.04   Allocation of revenue
   
98.05   Monthly reports and payment of tax
   
98.06   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
98.07   Taxes made a lien
   
98.08   Notices authorized by mail
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   For the purpose of supporting sustainability and development in the city,
and providing revenue to defray a portion of current operating expenses and
other expenditures of the city, there is hereby levied a tax on any monthly or
annual membership dues paid to every entity, of any nature, owning or operating
a golf course situated anywhere within the municipal boundaries of the city,
commencing on April 1, 2019, and thereafter.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.02 RATE OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 3% on any monthly or
annual membership dues paid to every entity, of any nature, owning or operating
a golf course situated anywhere within the municipal boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.03 COLLECTION.
   The aforementioned taxes are to be paid by the purchaser or payor, collected
by every entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course as trustee
for the city, and returned and paid by every entity, of any nature, owning or
operating a golf course in the manner and subject to the interest provided in §
98.05.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.04 ALLOCATION OF REVENUE.
   The revenue collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deposited in the Operating Fund of the city.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.05 MONTHLY REPORTS AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or before the twentieth day of each calendar month, every entity,
of any nature, owning or operating a golf course shall make a return to the Tax
Commissioner in such form as the Tax Commissioner may prescribe, showing the
amount of monthly and annual membership dues paid, the amount of taxable fees
collected during the preceding calendar month, the amount of tax hereby imposed
on the same, and such other facts and information as the Tax Commissioner may
require in the form of returns prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. The person
making the return shall certify that it is complete, true and accurate.
   (B)   All such returns shall be held confidential by the Tax Commissioner
and Treasurer and shall not be available for inspection unless ordered by a
court of competent jurisdiction, except that the Tax Commissioner may furnish
copies to the internal revenue department and to the City Manager or person
designated by the City Manager.
   (C)   Each person making such return shall, at the time of making the same,
pay the amount of taxes shown thereby to the Tax Commissioner. Such payments
shall be paid to the city. The Tax Commissioner may adopt uniform rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the method of making returns and payments, as
provided herein.
   (D)   If the tax imposed by this chapter is not paid when due, there shall
be added as part of the tax interest at the rate of 1% per month from the time
when the tax became due until paid.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.06 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner shall have power to adopt and promulgate such
rules and regulations as the Tax Commissioner may deem necessary to carry out
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course shall
keep records and receipts of monthly membership dues paid, annual membership
dues paid, and other pertinent documents, in such form as the Tax Commissioner
may by such regulation require. Such records and other documents shall be open
at any time during business hours to the inspection of the Tax Commissioner,
and shall be preserved for a period of three years, unless the Tax Commissioner
shall in writing require that they be kept longer.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.07 TAXES MADE A LIEN.
   (A)   Taxes imposed by this chapter shall be a lien upon the property owned
by every entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course. If any
entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course shall sell out or quit
business, it shall be required to make out a return provided for under this
chapter within 30 days after the date of sale of such business, and the
successor in business shall be required to withhold a sufficient amount of the
purchase money to recover the amount of said taxes so collected and unpaid,
together with interest, if any, until such time as the former owner shall
produce a receipt from the Treasurer showing that the taxes have been paid, or
a certificate that no taxes are due.
   (B)   If the purchaser of any entity, of any nature, owning or operating a
golf course shall fail to withhold purchase money as above provided, and the
taxes so collected shall be due and unpaid after the 30-day period allowed, the
purchaser shall be liable for the payment of the taxes collected and unpaid on
account of the operation of a golf course by the former owner(s), together with
interest, as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   The lien for unpaid taxes herein imposed shall not become effective
until such time as the Treasurer shall certify to the Auditor of the county the
amount of taxes delinquent, and such certification is placed on record by the
Recorder of the county in a book maintained for that purpose.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.08 NOTICES AUTHORIZED BY MAIL.
   (A)   Any notice authorized or required under the provisions of this chapter
may be given by mailing the same to a designated representative of every
entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course, in a post-paid
envelope addressed to such person at the address given in the last return filed
by every entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course, pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, or if no return has been filed then to such
address as may be obtainable.
   (B)   The mailing of such notice shall be prima facie evidence of the
receipt of the same by the person to whom addressed.
   (C)   Any period of time which is determined according to the provisions of
this chapter by the giving of notice shall commence to run from the date of
mailing such notice.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. Any person who shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any report or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Provide to the city an incomplete, false or fraudulent report or
declaration;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Refuse to permit the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her or his or her books, records, papers or other
tax filings in connection with the taxes imposed by this chapter;
      (5)   Fail to appear before the Tax Commissioner, or to produce his or
her books, records, papers or tax filings upon order or subpoena of the Tax
Commissioner;
      (6)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Commissioner any information with
respect to monthly membership or annual membership dues paid; or
      (7)   Fail to cause the taxes imposed by this chapter to be paid to the
city in accordance with the provisions of §
98.05.
   (B)   Time limitations on prosecutions. All criminal prosecutions under this
section must be commenced within three years, and all civil actions within five
years following the date on which the final return for a taxable year was due,
or five years from the time of any other offense complained of.
   (C)   Failure to obtain forms not a defense. The failure of any entity, of
any nature, owning or operating a golf course, or person affiliated therewith,
to procure a return, declaration or other required form shall not excuse him or
her from providing any report, information return, or declaration to the Tax
Commissioner, or from paying the subject tax.
   (D)   Responsibility of golf course’s or country club’s management team. The
term PERSON, as used in this section, shall include any owner, partner, member,
officer, director, president, chief financial officer, treasurer or any other
member of every entity, of any nature, owning or operating a golf course
management team who can be found within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (E)   Penalty. Whoever is found guilty of a violation of any part of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and may be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 and imprisonment of not more than 60
days.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 7-23-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
111.   CIRCUS, CARNIVAL OR SHOW
      
112.   DANCE HALLS, NIGHTCLUBS AND RESTAURANTS
      
113.   CHARITABLE AND COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
      
114.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER
      
115.   MARIJUANA FACILITIES
      
116.   OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREA
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License fee
   
110.04   Applications; information
   
110.05   Good moral character required for license
   
110.06   Tokens or certificates of value prohibited
   
110.07   Distance from school grounds
   
110.08   Minors prohibited
   
110.09   License may be transferred
   
110.10   Relocation of machines to be approved
   
110.11   Open to inspection
   
110.12   Revocation of license
   
110.13   Seizure and destruction of machines
Pool and Billiard Tables
   
110.25   Definition
   
110.26   License fee for pool tables
   
110.27   Licenses not to be transferred without permission
   
110.28   Hours
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating or exhibiting pinball
machines without first obtaining a license to do so and conforming to the
regulations provided for such business in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXHIBITOR. A person owning, managing or conducting a place of business in
the city and operating or exhibiting one or more pinball machines at such place
of business.
   PINBALL MACHINE. Includes any machine or device commonly or popularly known
as a PINBALL MACHINE and any machine or device which registers a score and in
which or on which a person can shoot or roll, either manually, electrically or
mechanically, one or more pellets, balls or marbles upon the insertion of a
coin, disc or other insertion piece or upon the payment of a consideration. It
shall not include coin-operated vending machines, music machines, motion
picture machines or other machines or devices used bona fide solely for the
vending of service, food, merchandise or entertainment.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980)
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEE.
   Every exhibitor shall pay an annual license fee of $100 plus an annual fee
of $100 for each pinball machine maintained or exhibited. An exhibitor
operating at more than one location shall pay a license fee for each location.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980)
§ 110.04 APPLICATIONS; INFORMATION.
   (A)   Applications for exhibitor’s licenses or for pinball machine licenses
shall be made to the City Manager on forms provided by him or her.
   (B)   Applications for exhibitor’s licenses shall state the number of
pinball machines for which the licenses are requested, the trade names, the
design or operation of each such machine, the location of the premises, the
particular room on the premises in which such pinball machines are to be
exhibited and the name and address of the distributor. If the City Manager is
satisfied that the applicant has complied with all the provisions of this
subchapter and is otherwise eligible to be a licensee, he or she shall issue
the license on payment of the license fee. The license stamps for pinball
machines shall specify the locations in which they are to be exhibited or
maintained. If a location consists of more than one room, the particular room
shall be specified. Each license stamp shall be attached to the machine for
which it is issued so as to be in plain view of the persons playing the same.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980)
§ 110.05 GOOD MORAL CHARACTER REQUIRED FOR LICENSE.
   No person shall be licensed as an exhibitor unless he or she is of good
moral character, and unless all the members of such corporation and the chief
business manager of such corporation are of good moral character. A person
convicted within the preceding five years of a felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude shall be considered as being not of good moral
character.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 1466, passed 6-23-1980)
§ 110.06 TOKENS OR CERTIFICATES OF VALUE PROHIBITED.
   No exhibitor or other person shall exhibit, operate or have in his or her
possession a pinball machine which is so constructed as to make possible,
either directly or by the use of an adjustment, of any kind to a player
operating the same, whether or not such further playing or other privileges.
Only machines operated exclusively for the amusement provided by the operation
thereof shall be licensed.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 DISTANCE FROM SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall maintain or exhibit a pinball machine on any premises
situated less than 500 feet from the building and grounds of any elementary
school or high school, the 500 feet to be measured along the line of the
nearest curb.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No exhibitor of one or more pinball machines shall permit the same to be
played or used by a person under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 LICENSE MAY BE TRANSFERRED.
   When the business of a exhibitor is sold or otherwise transferred, the
license of such exhibitor may be transferred to the transferee with the consent
of the City Manager for the remainder of the license period if the latter is
satisfied that the successor would be eligible to receive a new license. The
transfer of an exhibitor’s license shall carry with it the transfer of the
pinball machine licenses issued to him or her, and this shall be noted on the
books of the Manager and upon the license stamps issued for the pinball
machines.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 RELOCATION OF MACHINES TO BE APPROVED.
   (A)   No licensed pinball machines shall be removed from one premises to
another or from one room to another room on the same premises, unless the new
location shall be approved by the City Manager and duly noted on the license
stamp and on his or her records.
   (B)   Nothing herein, however, shall be understood to prevent the
replacement of one machine by another and the transfer of the license to such
substituted machine, if it complies with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   All pinball machines and all premises in which pinball machines are
maintained or exhibited shall be open to inspection by the police at all times.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Should any exhibitor violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the City Manager to
revoke his or her license.
   (B)   In case of the revocation of any exhibitor’s license, the licenses of
all machines operated by him or her or on his or her premises shall be revoked
and such machines removed from the premises within 24 hours thereafter.
   (C)   An exhibitor whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible to
apply for or receive a new license within the period of one year after the
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980)
§ 110.13 SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF MACHINES.
   If any pinball machine is used as a gambling device or is held, exhibited or
operated contrary to the provisions of the laws of the state or of this
subchapter, such machine may be seized by any police officer and upon a
judicial finding, either by the Mayor’s Court or the County Municipal Court,
that the pinball machine was used as a gambling device or was held, exhibited
or operated contrary to the provisions of the laws of the state or of this
subchapter, then, the judicial officer may order that the pinball machine be
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 1425, passed 2-4-1980)
POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES
§ 110.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPRIETOR. As used in §§
110.25 through
110.28, shall be construed to mean any person or group of persons that has in
his, her or their possession or control a pool or billiard table for use by the
public for a consideration or for use in connection with a business enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 110.25)
§ 110.26 LICENSE FEE FOR POOL TABLES.
   The proprietor shall pay an annual license fee of $150 for one pool or
billiard table and $100 for each additional table. The City Manager is
authorized to issue the license, together with annual renewals thereof.
However, no license shall be issued to any person who is not a citizen of the
United States. If a license issued prior to July 1 of any year, the full annual
fee of $150 and $100, respectively, for the first and each additional table
shall be paid. For licenses issued on or after July l, the fee for the
remainder of that year shall be $75 for the first, and $50 for each additional
table.
(Prior Code, § 110.26) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 LICENSES NOT TO BE TRANSFERRED WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   (A)   No license issued hereunder shall be assigned or transferred nor shall
the license be issued in connection with any business other than that for which
the license was originally issued, unless, in either instance, with the written
permission of the Mayor endorsed thereon.
   (B)   In no case shall a cash refund of any part of the license fee be made.
(Prior Code, § 110.27) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 HOURS.
   No proprietor shall permit pool or billiard tables to be used on weekdays
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., and on Sundays between 2:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon, except in conformance with establishment liquor license
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 110.28) (Ord. 1353, passed 7-10-1978) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.13 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100.
Each and every day in which the person continues the violation or failure shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
110.25 through
110.28 shall be fined not more than $500; and, within the discretion of the
Mayor, shall forfeit his or her right to a license under §§
110.25 through
110.28.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)
CHAPTER 111: CIRCUS, CARNIVAL OR SHOW
Section
   
111.01   Permit required for circus, carnival or show
   
111.02   Application for permit
   
111.03   Term of permit limited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CIRCUS, CARNIVAL OR SHOW.
   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct, stage or give a circus,
menagerie, carnival or medicine show within the territorial limits of the city
without obtaining a permit therefor from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued except upon written application therefor,
filed with the City Manager at least seven days prior to the first day upon
which any circus, menagerie, carnival or medicine show is sought to be
conducted, staged or given, and stating the type of show proposed, the date or
dates of proposed performances thereof and the location on which the shows are
proposed to be presented.
   (B)   The City Manager shall give his or her written consent to the issuance
of a permit upon any application if:
      (1)   It is timely filed and states all required information;
      (2)   The City Manager deems that the location proposed is suitable for
the purposes;
      (3)   The location will properly accommodate the proposed circus,
menagerie, carnival or medicine show; and
      (4)   The use of the location for such purpose will neither be injurious
to the public health and safety nor impose an undue additional burden upon the
police and firefighting forces of or at the command of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 TERM OF PERMIT LIMITED.
   No single circus, menagerie, carnival or medicine show shall be given, and
no permit therefor shall authorize the same to be given, for more than six
consecutive days, except where Council shall by special resolution allow a
longer period.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: DANCE HALLS, NIGHTCLUBS AND RESTAURANTS; NOISE
Section
Dance Halls, Nightclubs and Restaurants
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License fee to hold public dance
   
112.03   Revocation of license
   
112.04   Private clubs, fraternal orders or societies
Loud Noise
   
112.15   Disturbing the peace by noise and music
   
112.16   Loud noise or music prohibited after 11:00 p.m.
 
   
112.99   Penalty
DANCE HALLS, NIGHTCLUBS AND RESTAURANTS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FACILITIES FOR DANCING. The providing of music either by the use of radio,
phonograph or any other mechanical or electrical device for the production of
music; or the providing of music by any individual or group of individuals or
otherwise, together with floor space for dancing.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance to which admission may be had by the payment of a
fee or cover charge; or by the purchase of food or beverages or the equivalent;
or the purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket or token; or any other
dance to which the public generally may gain admission with or without the
payment of a fee.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE FEE TO HOLD PUBLIC DANCE.
   No person shall hold any public dance, provide facilities for dancing or
permit patrons to dance, in connection with any public restaurant, any
nightclub or other place of public entertainment within the limits of the city,
until the premises in which the public dance or the facilities for dancing are
provided have been duly licensed for such purpose. The license shall be issued
by the City Manager, and the license so issued shall provide that no dance
shall be given nor shall any dancing be permitted on the premises so licensed
between the hours of 2:30 a.m. on Sunday and 12:01 a.m. on Monday. The fee
shall be paid at the time of issuance of the license, and shall be $10 per
year. The City Manager may issue a license for a single day or night under the
provisions of this subchapter; the fee for the license shall be $2.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The license provided for herein may be forfeited or revoked by the City
Manager for disorderly or immoral conduct on the premises; permitting or
creating unnecessary noise on or in the neighborhood of the premises; or for
violation of any of the rules, regulations, ordinances and laws governing or
applying to the premises.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PRIVATE CLUBS, FRATERNAL ORDERS OR SOCIETIES.
   The provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.04 shall not apply to bona fide clubs, fraternal orders or societies
conducting dances where admission is restricted to members of the clubs, orders
or societies and the families of members, whether held on their own premises or
in a hall leased or donated for the purpose. Nor shall such sections apply to
dances the entire proceeds from which are used for local school, church, civic
or charitable purposes.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
LOUD NOISE
§ 112.15 DISTURBING THE PEACE BY NOISE AND MUSIC.
   (A)   No person operating a restaurant, hotel, summer garden or other place
of refreshment or entertainment shall permit or engage in the playing or
rendition of music of any kind, singing, loud talking or other noises on or
about the premises in such manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of two or
more separate residences before 7:00 a.m. and after 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   In every charge of violation of this section, the affidavit shall
state the hour at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 1550, passed 9-21-1981) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   Loud noises, see §
132.17
§ 112.16 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED AFTER 11:00 P.M.
   (A)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person, association, firm or
corporation operating a restaurant, hotel, summer garden or other place of
refreshment or entertainment to permit, or for any person in or about such
restaurant, hotel, summer garden or other place of refreshment or entertainment
to engage in, the playing or rendition of music of any kind, singing, loud
talking or other noises on or about the premises before 7:00 a.m. and after 11:
00 p.m.
   (B)   In every charge of violation of this section, the affidavit shall
state the hour at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
(Prior Code, § 112.16) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   Loud noises, see §
132.17
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, society, club or corporation who violates the provisions
of §§
112.01 through
112.04 or of any ordinance with reference to public dances or the premises on
which facilities are provided for public dancing, shall, upon conviction, be
fined not more than $50 for the first offense, and not more than $500 for a
second offense.
   (C)   Any person, association, firm or corporation violating §§
112.15 or
112.16 shall be fined not more than $50 for the first offense, and not more
than $500 for a second offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: CHARITABLE AND COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Purpose
   
113.03   Commercial solicitation prohibited unless registered
   
113.04   Registration for commercial door-to-door solicitation; no commercial
soliciting address list
   
113.05   Time limitation for all soliciting
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. The act of a person attempting to contact or
contacting persons who are on a property used for residential use for the
purpose of selling any goods or services or soliciting money, donations,
property, membership of any organization, financial assistance of any kind,
publications, advertisements, tickets or subscriptions of any kind, including
the selling of any publications or advertisement of the same. It shall also
include such acts as are a direct or implied plea that the solicitation or sale
is for charitable, educational, fraternal, civic, patriotic, religious,
political or philanthropic purpose. For purposes of this chapter, DOOR-TO-DOOR
SOLICITATION shall be categorized as follows.
      (1)   CHARITABLE/RELIGIOUS/POLITICAL SOLICITATION. Door-to-door
solicitations by any person, the primary purpose of which is to solicit funds
or sell goods for the benefit of charitable or non-profit organizations or for
the purpose of providing information to the occupants of the dwelling about
candidates for public office, political issues or religious or church related
matters.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. The act of door-to-door solicitation for
the purpose of soliciting orders for or making sales of goods, wares,
merchandise or services, or with the intent to influence the occupants of such
dwellings to purchase any article or service, without prior appointment or
permission of the occupant or occupants of such dwellings and which is not
charitable/ religious/political solicitation.
      (3)   NO COMMERCIAL SOLICITING ADDRESS LIST. A list to which residents
may elect to be added. When an address is on this list, it may not be subject
to commercial solicitation by anyone who does not have permission from the
resident. Registration for commercial solicitation with the city under this
regulation shall not constitute permission by the resident.
      (4)   NO COMMERCIAL SOLICITING INSIGNIA. A symbol displayed at any
residence that provides reasonable notice to a person that the resident intends
to prohibit solicitation, precluding door-to-door solicitation, including but
not limited to small yard signs or decals.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 93-66, passed 2-7-1994; Ord. 11-20, passed 3-26-
2012)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is recognized that the home has been described as “the one retreat
to which men and women can repair to escape from the tribulations of their
daily pursuits”. One activity which is often accused of eroding the sanctity of
the home is door-to-door solicitation. Door-to-door solicitation may be an
undesirable intrusion on the privacy of the home, not merely because the
solicitation interrupts a resident’s private routine, but also because it may
involve contact with speakers whose views offend the resident. As a result,
many citizens desire to protect their fundamental right to privacy by limiting
or denying limits to door-to-door solicitation.
   (B)   It is recognized herein that door-to-door solicitation is an exercise
of the traditional, fundamental right to the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment to the United States Constitution. However, it is further
recognized that the resident of a dwelling has the right to deny access to
persons who wish to intrude upon one’s privacy within his, her or their
dwelling without invitation.
   (C)   It is necessary to find a balance between, on one hand, the right of
privacy and, on the other hand, the freedom of speech, including commercial
speech, to give individuals a collective voice to express his, her or their
preferences for privacy and to allow commercial door-to-door solicitors to
reasonably practice his, her or their First Amendment rights.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 11-20, passed 3-26-2012)
§ 113.03 COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION PROHIBITED UNLESS REGISTERED.
   (A)   No person shall perform commercial door-to-door solicitation within
the city without first registering with the city.
   (B)   Whoever violates this provision shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Each offending commercial solicitation at a separate dwelling shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 11-20, passed 3-26-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 REGISTRATION FOR COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION; NO COMMERCIAL
SOLICITING ADDRESS LIST.
   (A)   Each individual, or an organization on behalf of one or more
designated individuals, wishing to engage in commercial door-to-door
solicitation within the city shall first register with the city. The process of
registering shall include obtaining a registration form from the city,
completing the form and returning the form with the required fee. The fee shall
be established by the City Manager, but in no event shall be more than $25 per
individual.
   (B)   Once registration is complete, the individual will receive the no
commercial soliciting address list. The presence of a resident’s address on the
no commercial soliciting address list or the display of any notice by a
resident that reasonably conveys a “no solicitation” message are sufficient in
itself to express the privacy wishes of the resident.
   (C)   Commercial soliciting at a residence that is either on the no
commercial soliciting address list or that displays a notice of “no
solicitation” (or similar notice, including but not limited to “no trespass”, “
no peddlers”, “keep out” or similar notices) in a reasonably visible manner,
without invitation from the resident, is hereby prohibited and punishable as a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   Nothing in this regulation shall be construed:
      (1)   To change the meaning or efficacy of the traditional exercises of
the right to privacy such as “no trespassing” signs and the like; or
      (2)   To preempt, replace or in any other way affect the crime of
trespass as defined under the laws of the city or the state.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 11-20, passed 3-26-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 TIME LIMITATION FOR ALL SOLICITING.
   All forms of solicitation, including both commercial and noncommercial
solicitation, shall only be permitted in residential areas after 9:00 a.m. and
before 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 11-20, passed 3-26-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating the regulations of this chapter,
including but not limited to failure to register as a commercial solicitor,
soliciting someone on the no commercial soliciting address list or someone who
displays the “no solicitation” or similar notice, soliciting outside the hours
specified in this chapter shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
It shall be considered a separate violation for each dwelling called upon in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Whoever is found guilty of violating any of the regulations of this
chapter shall be fined not more than $250 and imprisoned not more than 30 days
for the second or subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 11-20, passed 3-26-2012)
CHAPTER 114: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER
Section
   
114.01   Payment of video service provider fee required
§ 114.01 PAYMENT OF VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Following notice of a video service provider’s (hereinafter “VSP”)
intent to offer service in the city pursuant to R.C. § 1332.27 and as
compensation for the benefits and privileges granted under the state video
service and in consideration of permission to use the city’s streets and
rights-of-way, the VSP shall pay to the city a video service provider fee in
the amount of 5% of the VSP’s gross revenues, which gross revenue base shall
include advertising revenue, as defined by R.C. § 1332.32. Notice of this video
service provider fee shall be served upon the VSP by the City Manager, or duly
appointed designee, within ten days of the city receiving notice of the VSP’s
intent to offer service in the city.
   (B)   The city, at its sole expense, may conduct an annual audit for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of a VSP’s calculation of the video service
provider fees paid to the city in the audit period. For the purpose of the
audit, the VSP shall make available for inspection, at the location where such
records are kept in the normal course of business, those records pertaining to
gross revenues, including advertising revenues.
   (C)   A VSP shall pay any amounts found to have been underpaid in the audit
within 30 days after notice and shall include interest on the underpayments as
provided in R.C. § 1343.03, unless the VSP brings an action pursuant to R.C. §
1332.33(D).
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the city shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the city may have for further or additional sums payable as a video
service provider fee or from the performance of any other obligation of the
VSP.
   (E)   Video service provider payments shall be made no sooner than 45 nor
later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (F)   The city represents that it is its intention to be able to charge up
to the maximum amount of video service provider fees allowed by law which is
presently set at 5% pursuant to R.C. § 1332.32(C)(1)(b).
   (G)   A VSP shall meet all the customer service standards contained in R.C.
§ 1332.26.
   (H)   A VSP currently providing PEG (activities or actions performed for the
benefit of public, educational and government video programming) channel
pursuant to a franchise competitive video service agreement, ordinance or
resolution shall continue to provide the PEG channel(s) and support pursuant to
R.C. § 1332.30.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 08-06, passed 1-14-2008)
CHAPTER 115: MARIJUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Prohibition
   
115.04   Severability
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 3796.29 and as is set forth hereinafter, City Council
desires to prohibit the establishment or location of medical marijuana
facilities within the city where medical marijuana may be cultivated,
processed, or dispensed.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Has the meaning set forth in the Ohio Revised Code.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION. The process by which a person grows a
marijuana plant.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Any entity that sells, distributes, transmits,
gives, dispenses or otherwise provides medical marijuana to qualifying
patients.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY. A facility containing any one or more of the
following uses: medical marijuana dispensary; medical marijuana processing; or
medical marijuana cultivation.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING. The process by which a person incorporates
medical marijuana (cannabis) by means of cooking, blending or incorporation
into consumable/edible goods.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 115.03 PROHIBITION.
   Subject to the express exclusions set forth in R.C. § 3796.29 pertaining to
the limiting of research related to marijuana conducted at a state university,
academic medical center or private research and development organization as
part of a research protocol approved by an institutional review board or
equivalent entity, no medical marijuana facilities shall established or located
within the city.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision or clause of this chapter or its application to any person
or in any circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter shall be severable.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who fails to obey this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed $150 for each offense,
and each day’s continuance of the violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 4-10-2017)
CHAPTER 116: OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREA
Section
   
116.01   Recitals
   
116.02   Permit holders
   
116.03   Area
   
116.04   Signage
   
116.05   Hours of operation
   
116.06   Public health and safety plan
   
116.07   Bottles and containers
   
116.08   Report
§ 116.01 RECITALS.
   (A)   On June 13, 2022 the City Manager submitted an application to City
Council for approval of a DORA within Downtown Madeira.
   (B)   Notice of the filing of the DORA application and the date of a public
hearing thereon was published within the Cincinnati Enquirer and posted on the
legal advertisement section of the city’s website on June 22, 2022.
   (C)   A public hearing upon such application was held June 27, 2022.
   (D)   Council recommends establishing a DORA after receiving comment at the
public hearing in an area depicted upon Exhibit B (attached to Ordinance 22-07
and made a part of this chapter) including the addresses depicted upon Exhibit
C (which is also attached to Ordinance 22-07 and made a part of this chapter).
   (E)   The application submitted by the City Manager and reviewed at the
public hearing outlined the nature and types of business establishments that
are located within the DORA, identified seven currently active qualified permit
holders under the authority of the Division of Liquor Control (Exhibit A)
located within the DORA, verified that the proposed DORA is consistent with the
comprehensive plan for the city as it will support redevelopment within the
designated area as well as enhance current and planned pedestrian friendly
features in Downtown Madeira, and outlined proposed requirements to ensure
appropriate public health and safety in the operation of the DORA.
   (F)   Pursuant to Article III, § 4 of the City Charter and with respect to
Ordinance 22-07, Council may dispense with the three-reading requirement for
ordinances upon the affirmative vote of at least five members of Council.
   (G)   Pursuant to Article XI, § 1 of the City Charter and with respect to
Ordinance 22-07, Council may, by an affirmative vote of not less than five of
its members, declare the necessity of putting this measure into immediate force
and effect in order to preserve the public peace, order, safety, health or
welfare of the municipality, and to provide for the usual daily operation of
the city.
   (H)   Council believes the approval of the DORA will serve to enhance the
experience of patrons in the business establishments within the DORA area, and
such special events as may be scheduled now and in the future within such DORA
area.   
   (I)   Divisions (A) through (H) of this section, because they provide
foundation and context to the decision reflected hereinafter, are hereby
incorporated. City Council hereby accepts the DORA application as submitted by
the City Manager per the requirements of R.C. § 4301.82.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 116.02 PERMIT HOLDERS.
   City Council finds that the DORA encompasses the qualified permit holders,
which are identified on Exhibit A (attached to Ordinance 22-07 and made a part
hereof) by business name, address, liquor permit type and liquor permit number.
Council further finds that the DORA depicted on Exhibit B (attached to
Ordinance 22-07 and made a part hereof) comprises an area of less than 320
acres.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 116.03 AREA.
   City Council hereby approves the establishment of a DORA comprised of the
area depicted on Exhibit B (attached to Ordinance 22-07 and made a part
hereof). Such area shall include and encompass the premises and current
qualified permit holders located on the street addresses as listed on Exhibit C
(attached to Ordinance 22-07 and made a part hereof), and it shall encompass
the street addresses of those sections of the public streets located within the
DORA to allow future permit holders to receive properly coded permits to be
incorporated in the DORA.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 116.04 SIGNAGE.
   To ensure public health and safety, and in accordance with R.C. § 4301.82(F)
(1)(b), the number, spacing and type of signage designating the DORA boundaries
as set forth in Exhibit B (attached to Ordinance 22-07 and made a part hereof)
are hereby approved.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 116.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   As recommended by the City Manager, the hours of operation for the DORA
shall be Monday through Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Additionally,
special hours of DORA operation may be allowed as designated in advance by the
City Manager for the occasion of holidays or special events to be held within
the DORA sponsored by F Class permit holders.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022; Ord. 22-09, passed 9-26-2022)
§ 116.06 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY PLAN.
   To ensure public health and safety, and in accordance with R.C. § 4301.82(F)
(1), the public health and safety plan (“plan”) as outlined in Exhibit D
(attached to Ordinance 22-07 and made a part hereof) is hereby approved. The
plan properly confirms the number, spacing and type of signage designating the
DORA boundaries, the hours of operation for the DORA, the number of personnel
needed to ensure public safety in the DORA, a sanitation plan to maintain the
appearance and appropriate public safety in the DORA, and the number of
personnel needed to execute the sanitation plan.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 116.07 BOTTLES AND CONTAINERS.
   As is required by R.C. § 4301.82(F)(1)(g), beer and intoxicating liquor
shall only be served in plastic bottles or other plastic containers, which
shall be provided by the qualified permit holders in a readily identified
container as approved by the office of the City Manager.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
§ 116.08 REPORT.
   City Council shall continue to review the requirements of the DORA as
established herein, and the Administration is asked to report to City Council
on or before August 31, 2023 concerning the operations of the DORA, the success
of the DORA and any recommended modification to the terms or conditions of the
DORA. Further, on or before August 31, 2027, Council shall review the operation
of the DORA and shall either approve the continuing operation of the DORA or
dissolve the DORA. Council shall give appropriate public notice as required by
state law at that time before considering an extension or dissolution of the
DORA. Such DORA may be dissolved earlier as provided by law.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 6-27-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
134.   GAMBLING
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
139.   MISCELLANEOUS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Disposition of property held by law enforcement agency
   
130.14   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.15   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.16   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.17   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 130.01)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C.§ 737.10 as a special
patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and during the
time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Prior Code, § 130.03)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03) (Prior Code, § 130.04)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04) (Prior Code, § 130.05)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5),
or (A)(6) of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a
prosecution shall be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods
after an offense is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, “aggrieved
person” includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
      (6)   A prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2151.421(A)(1) or (A)(4),
which is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, or a misdemeanor of the first
degree under circumstances specified in R.C. § 2151.99, is barred unless it is
commenced within four years after the violation is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Prior Code, § 130.06)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Prior Code, § 130.07)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Prior Code, § 130.08)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated non-profit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Prior Code, § 130.09)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Prior Code, § 130.10)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Prior Code, § 130.11)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Prior Code, § 130.12)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY HELD BY LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   (a)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be
disposed of under this section or R.C. § 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a
reasonable effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to
notify them of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to
them at the earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying
persons entitled to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise using at
least one of the following methods:
            1.   In the print or digital edition of a newspaper of general
circulation in the county;
            2.   On the official public notice web site established under R.C.
§ 125.182;
            3.   On the web site and social media account of the county.
         (b)   The notices shall briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
(Prior Code, § 130.13)
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.14 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person’s own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05) (Prior Code, § 130.14)
§ 130.15 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06) (Prior Code, § 130.15)
§ 130.16 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08) (Prior Code, § 130.16)
§ 130.17 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11) (Prior Code, § 130.17)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, if the
offender enters an Alford plea, the sentencing court shall not consider whether
the offender showed genuine remorse for the offense.
      (3)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Prior Code, § 130.18)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08
or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving the operation of a
vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state correctional institution
when the trial court specifies that it is to be served consecutively. When
consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and prison terms are
imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies under this
division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive terms
imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony before
serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41) (Prior Code, § 130.19)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION OR ARREST OF PERSONS ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27) (Prior Code, § 130.20)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09) (Prior Code, § 130.21)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
  
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five- year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
(Prior Code, § 130.99)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
   Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.06   Criminal trespass
   
131.07   Aggravated trespass
   
131.08   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.09   Theft
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.11   Unauthorized use of property; unauthorized use of computer or
telecommunication property
   
131.12   Passing bad checks
   
131.13   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.14   Making or using slugs
   
131.15   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.16   Tampering with records
   
131.17   Securing writings by deception
   
131.18   Defrauding creditors
   
131.19   Receiving stolen property
   
131.20   Value of stolen property
   
131.21   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.22   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops
   
131.23   Tampering with or removing municipal property
   
131.24   Tampering with hydrant, pipe or meter
   
131.25   Possession of property belonging to the municipality
   
131.26   Damaging or endangering aircraft, airport operations
   
131.27   Motion picture piracy
   
131.28   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.29   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.30   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.31   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.32   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.33   Criminal simulation
   
131.34   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.35   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.36   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.37   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.38   Desecration
   
131.39   Injury to property by hunters
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.08, 2913.11,
2913.21, 2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43,
2913.44, 2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. §
2913.51, 2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (Prior Code, § 131.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03) (Prior Code, § 131.02)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
(Prior Code, § 131.03)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Prior Code, § 131.04)
§ 131.05 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of §
131.02.
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (A)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (A)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
   (B)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.61.
   (C)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C. §
2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D)) (Prior Code, § 131.05)
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of- way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (G)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (G)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (G)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (G)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (G)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
(Prior Code, § 131.06)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.27
§ 131.07 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(A)(2) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (C)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211) (Prior Code, § 131.07)
§ 131.08 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Prior Code, § 131.08)
§ 131.09 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor
theft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the elements set forth in R.C. §
2913.02(B) for felony theft, grand theft, or aggravated theft are met, then a
violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B)(1) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
         (a)   Unless division (B)(2)(b) of this section applies, suspend for
not more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
         (b)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to
division (B)(2)(a) of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state
or local law, impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license,
permit, or privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided
that the suspension shall be at least six months;
         (c)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (B)
(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b) of this section, instead may require the offender to
perform community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B)(1) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (C)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (B)(2) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) (Prior Code, § 131.09)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Prior Code, § 131.10)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.11 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY; UNAUTHORIZED USE OF COMPUTER OR
TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 131.11)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.12 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Prior Code, § 131.12)
§ 131.13 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Prior Code, § 131.13)
§ 131.14 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33) (Prior Code, § 131.14)
§ 131.15 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41) (Prior Code, § 131.15)
§ 131.16 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Prior Code, § 131.16)
§ 131.17 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43) (Prior Code, § 131.17)
§ 131.18 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45) (Prior Code, § 131.18)
§ 131.19 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Prior Code, § 131.19)
§ 131.20 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 131.20)
§ 131.21 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.09 or §
131.19 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Prior Code, § 131.21)
§ 131.22 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 131.22)
§ 131.23 TAMPERING WITH OR REMOVING MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maliciously tamper with, injure, destroy,
steal or remove any lamp, lantern, lamppost, pole, cable, electric line, tool,
hose, pipe, conduit, road material, earth, stone, ordinance or other posted
notice, street sign or any other property or material owned or under the
supervision or control of this municipality or any department thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 131.23) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 131.24 TAMPERING WITH HYDRANT, PIPE OR METER.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously open, close, adjust, or interfere with a
fire hydrant, valve, regulator, gauge, gate, disc, curb cock, stopcock, meter,
or other regulator, operating or measuring device, or appliance in or attached
to the wells, tanks, reservoirs, conduits, pipes, mains, service pipes, house
pipes, or other pipes or apparatus of a water company or furnisher of water,
with intent to cause the escape of water or to injure or destroy such property.
   (B)   No person shall tap, sever, open, or make unauthorized connections
with a main or pipe used or intended for the transmission of water. This
section does not apply to the agent or employee for that purpose, of the owner
or operator of the appliances referred to in this section, and does not apply
to anything done by or under authority of any regularly constituted fire
department.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
tampering with a hydrant, pipe or meter, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4933.22) (Prior Code, § 131.24)
§ 131.25 POSSESSION OF PROPERTY BELONGING TO THE MUNICIPALITY.
   Whoever, without being duly authorized, shall have in his or her control or
possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property belonging to the
municipality shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 131.25) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 131.26 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT, AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 131.26)
§ 131.27 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07) (Prior Code, § 131.27)
§ 131.28 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07) (Prior Code, § 131.28)
§ 131.29 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private non-profit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041) (Prior Code, § 131.29)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.30 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
(Prior Code, § 131.30)
§ 131.31 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.09 through
131.21,
131.30,
131.31 through
131.34,
132.11 or
132.12, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
(Prior Code, § 131.31)
§ 131.32 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2)) (Prior Code, § 131.32)
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.33 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32) (Prior Code, § 131.33)
§ 131.34 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34) (Prior Code, § 131.34)
§ 131.35 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 131.35)
§ 131.36 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe- line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
(Prior Code, § 131.36)
§ 131.37 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.38 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 131.39 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Improper activation of alarm system
   
132.11   Personating an officer
   
132.12   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.13   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.14   Cordoning emergency areas
   
132.15   Disturbing church congregations or schools
   
132.16   Scattering itching powder and the like
   
132.17   Loud noises
   
132.18   Loud noises of locomotives
   
132.19   Begging prohibited
   
132.20   Limitation of hours of construction and development activities
   
132.21   Inciting to violence
   
132.22   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.23   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
Offenses Involving Alcohol
   
132.35   Drunkenness
   
132.36   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquors prohibited
   
132.37   Limitation on purchase of liquor or beer
   
132.38   Open container prohibited
   
132.39   Consumption in motor vehicles prohibited
   
132.40   Sale to minors prohibited
   
132.41   Limitations on possession of liquor or beer
   
132.42   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
132.43   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage by or for a minor
   
132.44   Consumption of alcohol on private property
   
132.45   General provisions
   
132.46   Posting of card
   
132.47   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
132.48   Liquor transaction scans
   
132.49   Affirmative defenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
(Prior Code, § 132.01)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Prior Code, § 132.02)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05) (Prior Code, § 132.03)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Prior Code, § 132.04)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Prior Code, § 132.05)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Prior Code, § 132.06)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the Telephone
Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Prior Code, § 132.07)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, non-profit college, university or other post-
secondary institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of
authorization issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31) (Prior Code, § 132.08)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Prior Code, § 132.09)
§ 132.10 IMPROPER ACTIVATION OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, being the owner or person in charge,
shall allow an alarm system to become a public nuisance by doing any of the
following:
      (1)   Permit conditions to exist that allow an alarm system to activate
more than two false alarms in a calendar month;
      (2)   Permit conditions to exist that allow an alarm system to activate
more than 12 false alarms in a calendar year; or
      (3)   Fail to notify the Police Department, the Fire Department or the
Hamilton County Communication Center prior to any service, test, repair,
maintenance, adjustment, alteration or installation which might activate a
false alarm.
   (B)   It is prima facie evidence that a violation of this offense has
occurred if the system activates for reasons other than its intended purpose.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that, when
the system was activated there appeared to be a need for assistance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of allowing an alarm system to
become a public nuisance, a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.10) (Ord. 90-65, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 132.11 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44) (Prior Code, § 132.11)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.13
§ 132.12 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441) (Prior Code, § 132.12)
§ 132.13 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51) (Prior Code, § 132.13)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
132.11
§ 132.14 CORDONING EMERGENCY AREAS.
   (A)   The Manager, Mayor or Vice-Mayor of the city, when engaged in
suppressing riot or civil commotion in the city, or when there is a clear and
present danger of riot or civil commotion occurring within the city, or in case
of fire, accident, disaster or emergency of any kind, shall have the authority
to cordon the area or areas within the city in which any such riot or civil
commotion is taking place or in which any such fire or other emergency exists,
and any area or areas within the city relative to which such danger or riot or
civil commotion exists or in which any such accident or disaster has occurred;
to prohibit persons from entering or leaving any such cordoned area except
persons seeking to enter or leave for the purpose of carrying on necessary and
lawful pursuits; and to prohibit the selling, offering for sale, dispensing,
carrying or transporting of firearms or other dangerous weapons, or of
ammunition, dynamite or dangerous explosives of any kind, or of intoxicating
beverages, into, within or from any such cordoned area. They may exercise such
authority through any Sheriff, police officer, deputy or other law enforcement
officer on duty in the city.
   (B)   No person shall willfully fail promptly to obey a lawful order of the
Manager, Mayor or Vice-Mayor, or of any Sheriff, police officer, deputy or
other law enforcement officer, given under the authority of or pursuant to this
section.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.14) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 132.15 DISTURBING CHURCH CONGREGATIONS OR SCHOOLS.
   Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, or give or offer to give, or attempt
in any manner to distribute any pamphlets, circulars, dodgers or printed matter
of any kind at any entrance or exit of any church or schoolhouse or upon any
public street within 100 feet of any such church or schoolhouse, during any
services in or during the hour preceding or an hour following any such services
in any such church, or during hours of instruction or recess in any such
school, or during an hour preceding or an hour following such hours of
instruction, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.15) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 132.16 SCATTERING ITCHING POWDER AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who shall distribute, spread, scatter or set free in any theater,
hall or other place of public assemblage, any one or more of the articles known
as itching powders, sneezing powders, stink bombs or any article used for the
purpose of producing itching, sneezing by irritation or nauseous or annoying
smells or odors, shall on conviction thereof, be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.16) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 132.17 LOUD NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any whistle, rattle,
bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum, horn, player piano, calliope, radio,
phonograph or other sound producing or sound amplifying instrument, or in any
other way create noise or sound in such manner and to such extent as to disturb
the peace and quiet of two or more separate residences between the hours of 6:
00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
any such person to permit or for any such person to engage in any such creation
of noise or sound on or about any premises during the night hours beginning at
11:00 p.m. and ending at 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1551, passed 9-21-1981)
   (C)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit shall state
the hour at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
   (D)   Any person, association, firm or corporation violating this section
shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-1977)
(Prior Code, § 132.17)
§ 132.18 LOUD NOISES OF LOCOMOTIVES.
   (A)   No person shall make or cause an unnecessary noise with any whistle,
bell or signal device upon any locomotive passing through the city limits.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.18) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 132.19 BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   Whoever shall solicit alms or charity, either in person or by letter, shall
be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.19) (Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-1977)
§ 132.20 LIMITATION OF HOURS OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Background, purpose and intent. Certain construction and development
activities such as clearing, excavation, loading and unloading of construction
materials, equipment and supplies, machine tools, construction, repair and
demolition create traffic, noise and other related impacts within the city and
upon residents of the city. The city believes it is in the best interest of
this community to regulate the hours of performance of certain construction and
development activities in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
residents of the city. The purpose and intent of this section is to limit
excessive construction noise that interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of
life, property, recreation or conduct of business within the city. The
requirements contained herein are designed to encourage managed development and
construction. The city regulates noise pollution pursuant to
Chapter 132 of the code of ordinances. It has been determined that
Chapter 132 does not contain clearly defined language to regulate construction
times or noise. Excessive noise is a serious hazard to the public health and
welfare and the quality of life in any residential community. Each resident of
the city has the right to an environment reasonably free from noise which
jeopardizes health, welfare or which unduly interferes with a property owner’s
right to the use or enjoyment of their property. It is recognized that
residential land uses are more noise sensitive than commercial land uses. The
city also recognizes that continued development and construction are essential
to economic vitality of our community and that certain noise producing
equipment, including those for construction activities, are essential to the
quality of life and should be allowed to continue at reasonable levels with
moderate regulation. Therefore, the Council has determined that it is in the
best interests of the residents of our community to promote an environment free
from excessive noise, otherwise properly called “noise pollution”, which
unnecessarily jeopardizes the health and welfare and degrades the quality of
lives of our residents, without unduly prohibiting, limiting or otherwise
regulating the function of certain noise-producing equipment used in
construction activities. The City Council finds that limiting the hours within
which certain construction noise may originate will benefit the city’s
residential neighborhoods by ensuring tranquility and calm during sensitive
hours, while simultaneously preserving a sufficient opportunity for necessary
construction activities to occur.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Madeira, or his or her
designee.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. Activities such as excavation;
clearing; earth moving; construction; repair; maintenance; demolition; loading
or unloading of construction materials; equipment and supplies; operation of
construction tools, vehicles and equipment; and operation of power tools; where
said activities have a total estimated cost exceeding $250,000.
   (C)   Limitation on hours of construction and development activities.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, construction and
development activities as defined in division (B) of this section shall be
undertaken within the city only during the following hours:
         (a)   Monday through Friday: 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.; and
         (b)   Saturdays: 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m
      (2)   No construction and development activities as defined in division
(B) of this section shall be permitted on Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial
Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas Day.
   (D)   Exceptions. The limitations stated in division (C) shall not apply to
the following:
      (1)   Construction and development activities to remedy or avoid a
problem related to the health or safety of persons or property, or related to
sewer, water, power utility or telephone interruptions;
      (2)   Construction and development activities undertaken by or on behalf
of any public body (including the city) or agency for the benefit of the
public. The City Manager may attach to any such waiver, all conditions he or
she deems necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare; and
      (3)   Construction and development activities as defined in division (B)
of this section approved in writing by the City Manager to be conducted at
times and/or days other than those permitted in division (C) of this section
after consideration of factors including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Whether construction noise in the vicinity of the proposed work
site would be less objectionable at hours other than those specified in
division (C) of this section because of the unique nature of the population
levels, population distribution and surrounding neighborhood activities;
         (b)   Whether obstruction and interference with traffic, particularly
on streets of major importance, would be less objectionable at hours other than
those specified in division (C) of this section;
         (c)   Whether the kind of work to be performed emits noises at such a
low level as to not cause significant disturbance of the peaceful enjoyment of
their property by the neighbors in the vicinity of the work site;
         (d)   Whether the neighborhood of the proposed work site is primarily
residential in character such that the sleep of the residents would be
disturbed;
         (e)   Whether great economic hardship would occur if the work were
spread over a longer time;
         (f)   Whether the work will abate or prevent hazards to life or
property, or whether the work provides a unique benefit to the public at large
or is in the general public interest; and
         (g)   Any other similar relevant factors.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Warning. Upon receipt of a complaint, or upon observation of
construction and development activities that are conducted other than as
permitted in this section, the City Manager, any police officer and any city
building official may investigate the matter and inform the property owner or
persons doing construction on the site regarding the permitted hours for such
construction and development activities. However, actual notice of the alleged
violation is not necessary to invoke the enforcement of this section.
      (2)   Enforcement.
         (a)   The City Manager or the building official may issue a stop work
order regarding all construction on a site where construction and development
activities are being conducted in violation of this section.
         (b)   Each separate occurrence of a violation of this section shall
constitute a separate violation.
         (c)   The city reserves the right to enforce violations of this
section by all means available pursuant to the civil and criminal codes. The
city may enforce such violation by initiating one or more of the following
actions:
            1.   Issuance of a citation, subject to applicable fines as set
forth in this section; and
            2.   Initiation of a civil court proceeding, including but not
limited to a demand for injunctive relief, or any other lawful process pursuant
to the Ohio Revised Code.
         (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section for a
second time during any 30-day period shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree and subject to a fine of not more than $250 for each violation.
         (e)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section for
three or more times during any 60-day period shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree and subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each
violation.
(Prior Code, § 132.20) (Ord. 08-31, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 132.21 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01) (Prior Code, § 132.21)
§ 132.22 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the legislative authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40) (Prior Code, § 132.22)
§ 132.23 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41) (Prior Code, § 132.23)
OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOL
§ 132.35 DRUNKENNESS.
   Whoever shall disturb the good order and quiet of the municipality by
intoxication and drunkenness, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.35) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 132.36 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of a permit issued by the Department
of Liquor Control, in force at the time and authorizing the same, shall have in
his or her possession any intoxicating liquor in one or more containers if the
containers do not have thereon the seal prescribed by the Board of Liquor
Control, pursuant to R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, unless such intoxicating
liquor was lawfully acquired by him or her.
   (B)   The possession of such intoxicating liquor in such containers is prima
facie evidence that it was not lawfully acquired by the defendant.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.36) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974)
§ 132.37 LIMITATION ON PURCHASE OF LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 132.37)
§ 132.38 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8, or F-9 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171;
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. Means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The legislative authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 132.38)
§ 132.39 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.39) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974)
§ 132.40 SALE TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell intoxicating liquor, beer, malt liquor or malt
beverages to a person under the age of 21 years, or buy intoxicating liquor
for, or furnish it to, a minor unless given by a physician in the regular line
of his or her practice, or by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.40) (Ord. 1598, passed 7-19-1982; Ord. 97-05, passed 2-10-
1997)
§ 132.41 LIMITATIONS ON POSSESSION OF LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall possess intoxicating liquor,
beer, malt liquor or malt beverages.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.41) (Ord. 1598, passed 7-19-1982; Ord. 97-05, passed 2-10-
1997; Ord. 07-10, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 132.42 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
(Prior Code, § 132.42)
§ 132.43 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BY OR FOR A MINOR.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the
purpose of obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor
for a person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for
the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in
any place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under
a permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (B)(1), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a
false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
(Prior Code, § 132.43)
§ 132.44 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person being the owner, occupier or otherwise in possession of any
real property located within the city, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow a minor, under 21 years of age, who is not the child,
relative or ward of the owner, occupier or possessor, to possess or consume
intoxicating liquor or beer while on the premises; and
      (2)   Permit circumstances to exist in or upon the real property which
would result in a violation of this division (A).
   (B)   A person will be held to possess intoxicating liquor or beer where
such alcoholic beverage is within the immediate control, care or management of
that person.
   (C)   Where a person is investigated or charged under division (A) of this
section, the police and/or court shall consider the following factors in favor
of such person in determining whether a violation has occurred:
      (1)   Where the owner, occupier or possessor, prior to leaving the city
for a period in excess of 24 hours, notified the Police Department of the dates
of the departure and return and the identity of those persons who will remain
on the premises during the absence; and/or
      (2)   Where the owner, occupier or possessor enlisted the aid of the
Police Department in controlling the situation involving any of the offenses
enumerated in division (A) of this section prior to the police taking action
based on their observations or receiving a complaint relating to the situation
from another resident of the city.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for the first offense. Any subsequent violation of division (A) of
this section within two years of the date of the first conviction shall be a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 132.44) (Ord. 88-02, passed 2-1-1988; Ord. 87-30, passed 9-8-
1987)
§ 132.45 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All terms used in §§
132.42 through
132.44 shall be as defined in the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Should any clause of §§
132.42 through
132.44 be held unconstitutional, that clause shall be deemed null and void
without affecting the enforceability of the remainder of those sections.
(Prior Code, § 132.45) (Ord. 87-30, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 132.46 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one- half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) (Prior Code, § 132.46)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 132.47 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport was issued
and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the
person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or
that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any
low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way.
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
92.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C)) (Prior Code, § 132.47)
§ 132.48 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another
state.
      PERMIT HOLDER. Means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b);
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder;
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61) (Prior Code, § 132.48)
§ 132.49 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
of this section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall
be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu
of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
(Prior Code, § 132.49)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Notices concerning habitual sex offenders
   
133.14   Rules of evidence
   
133.15   Declaratory judgment
   
133.16   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.17   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.18   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.19   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.20   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.21   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
   
133.22   Grooming
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Any of the following medical professionals:
      (1)   A physician assistant licensed under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (2)   A physician authorized under R.C. Chapter 4731 to practice medicine
and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and
surgery;
      (3)   A massage therapist licensed under R.C. Chapter 4731.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Prior Code, § 133.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another when the offender knows the other person is 13 years of
age or older but less than 16 years of age, or the offender is reckless in that
regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Prior Code, § 133.02)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another; cause another to
have sexual contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to
have sexual contact when the offender knows that the sexual contact is
offensive to the other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in
that regard.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Prior Code, § 133.03)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
(Prior Code, § 133.04)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Prior Code, § 133.05)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant’s attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender’s
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10) (Prior Code, § 133.06)
§ 133.07 PROCURING.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
(Prior Code, § 133.07)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
(Prior Code, § 133.08)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Prior Code, § 133.09)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a motion picture operator or
projectionist acting within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner
or manager of the theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to
the general public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial
interest in the operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than
wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of section and §
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or §
133.11 or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of this section, §
133.11 or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of this section, §
133.11 or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section or §
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
(Prior Code, § 133.10)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311) (Prior Code, § 133.11)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33) (Prior Code, § 133.12)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 NOTICES CONCERNING HABITUAL SEX OFFENDERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police, upon receipt of the notice from the County
Sheriff or the Ohio Attorney General pursuant to R.C. § 2950.11, or the
administrative regulations adopted under authority of R.C. § 2950.13
(hereinafter “2950 Notice”) in addition to any notice required under R.C.
Chapter 2950 and any regulations adopted thereunder, shall provide a copy of
the 2950 Notice to all residences located within a radius of 600 feet of the
address listed within the 2950 Notice of the residence of the sexual predator
or habitual sex offender. The Chief of Police shall send such notice within 72
hours of the receipt of the 2950 Notice from the County Sheriff or Ohio
Attorney General. The delivery of this notice may be accomplished by personal
delivery to a principal adult occupant of the residences in the area described
above, or by mailing a copy of the notice by ordinary United States mail,
addressed to the owner or principal occupant of the residences in the affected
areas as such owner or principal occupant is identified within the records
maintained by the city.
      (2)   As a public record, the Chief of Police is also authorized to
release a copy of the 2950 Notice to a newspaper in general circulation within
the Madeira community which regularly receives crime reports or statistics from
the Police Department.
   (B)   The procedure set forth herein is not intended to create a cause of
action against any official, administrative officer, employee or agent of the
city, nor is the procedure adopted herein intended in any way to impact the
immunity extended to such persons pursuant to R.C. § 2950.12. Such statutory
immunity is reserved to all protected individuals and organizations as outlined
in R.C. § 2950.12 or successor statute. As a public record subject to
publication and disclosure, this section is intended to provide a procedure for
effectively disseminating the public information provided to the Police
Department concerning sexual predators or habitual sex offenders residing
within the community. The procedure adopted herein is intended to ensure
appropriate public safety, and it is not intended to create any obligation upon
the Police Department nor any official or employee of the city to disseminate
such information or to create liability for the failure to disseminate such
information in a timely and complete manner.
(Prior Code, § 133.13) (Ord. 01-22, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 133.14 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26) (Prior Code, § 133.14)
§ 133.15 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36) (Prior Code, § 133.15)
§ 133.16 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37) (Prior Code, § 133.16)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.17 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38) (Prior Code, § 133.17)
§ 133.18 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39) (Prior Code, § 133.18)
§ 133.19 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40) (Prior Code, § 133.19)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.20 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.21 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.22 GROOMING.
   (A)   As used in this section, PATTERN OF CONDUCT has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2903.211.
   (B)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in a pattern of
conduct with a minor who is less than 16 years of age and who is four or more
years younger than the person, when the pattern of conduct would cause a
reasonable adult person to believe that the person is communicating with the
minor with purpose to do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity,
and when the person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to
entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity with the
person or a third person;
      (2)   Prepare the minor to engage in sexual activity, and when the
person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to prepare the minor
to engage in sexual activity with the person or a third person that would be a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, or 2907.07.
   (C)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in a pattern of
conduct with a minor if the person and the minor are in any of the
relationships described in R.C. § 2907.03(A)(5) to (A)(13), when the pattern of
conduct would cause a reasonable adult person to believe that the person is
communicating with the minor with purpose to do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity,
and when the person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to
entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity with the
person or a third person;
      (2)   Prepare the minor to engage in sexual activity, and when the
person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to prepare the minor
to engage in sexual activity with the person or a third person that would be a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, or 2907.07.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of grooming.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
victim of the offense is less than 13 years of age or if the offender supplied
alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the victim of the offense is less than 13 years of age and if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
this section or a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim oriented offense
or the offender supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the
offense, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or a sexually
oriented offense or a child-victim oriented offense and the offender supplied
alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a
violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less than 13 years of
age or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim
oriented offense, a violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less
than 13 years of age and if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense or
a child-victim oriented offense or the offender supplied alcohol or a drug of
abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of division (C) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the this code or the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under this section or any other section of this code or the
Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the other section of
this code or the Revised Code, or both sections.
(R.C. § 2907.071)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23) (Prior Code, § 133.99)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for non-profit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide non-profit organizations,
promotion of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a non-profit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Prior Code, § 134.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (Prior Code, § 134.02)
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Prior Code, § 134.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Prior Code, § 134.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Prior Code, § 134.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
(Prior Code, § 134.06)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10) (Prior Code, § 134.07)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11) (Prior Code, § 134.08)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and
134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12) (Prior Code, § 134.09)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
(Prior Code, § 134.10)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092) (Prior Code, § 134.11)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
(Prior Code, § 134.12)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094) (Prior Code, § 134.13)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced- price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
(Prior Code, § 134.14)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter
   
135.04   Assault
   
135.05   Negligent assault
   
135.06   Injury of persons by hunters
   
135.07   Aggravated menacing
   
135.08   Menacing
   
135.09   Menacing by stalking
   
135.10   Unlawful restraint
   
135.11   Criminal child enticement
   
135.12   Coercion
   
135.13   Bigamy
   
135.14   Illegal use of a tracking device or application
   
135.15   Reserved
   
135.16   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.17   Endangering children
   
135.18   Interference with custody
   
135.19   Interference with support orders
   
135.20   Abusing family
   
135.21   Pocket picking attempt
   
135.22   Domestic violence
   
135.23   Hazing prohibited
   
135.24   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.25   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.26   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.27   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.28   Adulteration of food
   
135.29   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
transaction scans
   
135.30   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.31   Spreading contagion
   
135.32   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.33   Misrepresentation relating to provision of child care
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.09, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09) (Prior Code, § 135.01)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05) (Prior Code, § 135.02)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, snowmobile, locomotive,
watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   As the proximate result of committing an OVI offense.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided
that this division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose
pregnancy is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of
the offender’s commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this
division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply
as described in division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MINI-TRUCK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         OVI OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), a violation R.C.
§ 1547.11(A), a violation of R.C. § 4561.15(A)(3), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
         UTILITY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck, shall cause serious
physical harm to another person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of
committing, while operating or participating in the operation of a motor
vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, or motorcycle in a construction zone, a
speeding offense, provided that this division applies only if the person to
whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose unborn the serious
physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the time of the
offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G)) (Prior Code, § 135.03)
Statutory reference:
   Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (D)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) or (B) of this section or any other
section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) or (B) of
this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) or (B) of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the
basis of the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, the offenses are
allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Prior Code, § 135.04)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.05 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of negligent
assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Prior Code, § 135.05)
§ 135.06 INJURY OF PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 135.06)
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.07 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of aggravated
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), aggravated
menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a private child
placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an
offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Prior Code, § 135.07)
§ 135.08 MENACING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
         (b)   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know that
the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an emergency
service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the
specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section, a
misdemeanor of the first degree;
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency
or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the responder’s
official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. One
or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that can be prosecuted
under this section or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be
prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance,
based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the
violation of division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Prior Code, § 135.08)
§ 135.09 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
      (2)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication or
any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but not
limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer system,
or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any intentionally
written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of the following:
         (a)   Violate division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (A)(1)
of this section.
      (3)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A)(1)
or (A)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of menacing
by stalking.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
         (b)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against
the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message
made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
         (c)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section, a third person
induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
         (d)   The victim of the offense is a minor.
         (e)   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or any
other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any other
person.
         (f)   While committing the offense under division (A)(1) of this
section or a violation of division (A)(3) of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (A)(1) of this section, the offender had a deadly weapon
on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control. Division (B)
(2)(f) of this section does not apply in determining the penalty for a
violation of division (A)(2) of this section or a violation of division (A)(3)
of this section based on conduct in violation of division (A)(2) of this
section.
         (g)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
         (h)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises
at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result
of an offense committed under division (A)(2) of this section or an offense
committed under division (A)(3) of this section based on a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that real
property, or any personal property on that premises.
         (i)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
         (j)   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties.
         (k)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
   (C)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(1) of this section is
committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the person;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against whom
the act prohibited in division (A)(1) of this section is committed is the other
natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
         (b)   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
      PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
      POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division (A)
(2) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim
of the conduct.
   (E)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under this
section that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in division (b) of the
definition for “mental distress” in this section.
   (F)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is or will be sent in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211) (Prior Code, § 135.09)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.27
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.10 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Prior Code, § 135.10)
§ 135.11 CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT.
   (A)   No person, by any means and without privilege to do so, shall
knowingly solicit, coax, entice, or lure any child under fourteen years of age
to accompany the person in any manner, including entering into any vehicle or
onto any vessel, whether or not the offender knows the age of the child, if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The actor does not have the express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian, or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity.
      (2)   The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter, or
other person who regularly provides emergency services, and is not an employee
or agent of, or a volunteer acting under the direction of, any board of
education, or the actor is any of such persons, but, at the time the actor
undertakes the activity, the actor is not acting within the scope of the
actor’s lawful duties in that capacity.
   (B)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A) of
this section.
   (C)   No person, for any unlawful purpose other than, or in addition to,
that proscribed by division (A) of this section, shall engage in any activity
described in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A) of this
section that the actor undertook the activity in response to a bona fide
emergency situation or that the actor undertook the activity in a reasonable
belief that it was necessary to preserve the health, safety, or welfare of the
child.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section is guilty
of criminal child enticement, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section, R.C. §
2907.02 or 2907.03 or former R.C. § 2907.12, or R.C. § 2905.01 or 2907.05 when
the victim of that prior offense was under seventeen years of age at the time
of the offense, criminal child enticement is a felony of the fifth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
(R.C. § 2905.05) (Prior Code, § 135.11)
§ 135.12 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12) (Prior Code, § 135.12)
§ 135.13 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01) (Prior Code, § 135.13)
§ 135.14 ILLEGAL USE OF A TRACKING DEVICE OR APPLICATION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      BUSINESS ENTITY. Means any form of corporation, partnership, association,
cooperative, joint venture, business trust, or sole proprietorship that
conducts business in this state.
      BUSINESS OF PRIVATE INVESTIGATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4749.01.
      DISABLED ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      ELDERLY PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means any organization or unit comprised of law
enforcement officers, and also includes any federal or military law enforcement
agency.
      OHIO PROTECTION ORDER. Means a protection order filed or issued or a
consent agreement approved pursuant to R.C. § 2919.26 or 3113.31, a protection
order filed or issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, or 2903.214, or a
no contact order issued as any of the following:
         (a)   As part of a person’s sentence under a community control
sanction imposed under R.C. § 2929.16, 2929.17, 2929.26, or 2929.27;
         (b)   As a term or condition of a person’s release under R.C. §
2929.20;
         (c)   As a post-release control sanction imposed as a condition of a
person’s post-release control under R.C. § 2967.28;
         (d)   As a term of supervision for a person transferred to
transitional control under R.C. § 2967.26;
         (e)   As a term or condition of the intervention plan of a person
granted intervention in lieu of conviction under R.C. § 2951.041.
      PERSON. Means an individual, but does not include a business entity.
      PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4749.01.
      PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE. Has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 2919.27.
      TRACKING APPLICATION. Means any software program that permits a person to
remotely determine or track the position or movement of another person or
another person’s property.
      TRACKING DEVICE. Means an electronic or mechanical device that permits a
person to remotely determine or track the position or movement of another
person or another person’s property, including an electronic monitoring device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, no
person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Install a tracking device or tracking application on another
person’s property without the other person’s consent or cause a tracking device
or tracking application to track the position or movement of another person or
another person’s property without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   If the person installed a tracking device or tracking application
on another’s property with the other person’s consent and the other person
subsequently revokes that consent, fail to remove or ensure the removal of the
device or application after the other person revokes the consent.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, if a person has given consent for
another to install a tracking device or tracking application on the consenting
person’s property, it is presumed that the consenting person has revoked that
consent if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The consenting person and the person to whom consent was given
are lawfully married and one of them files a complaint for divorce or a
petition for dissolution of marriage from the other. Not later than 72 hours
after being served with a complaint for divorce or a petition for dissolution
of marriage, the person to whom consent was given shall lawfully uninstall or
discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking application. If the person
to whom consent was given cannot lawfully uninstall or discontinue use of the
tracking device or tracking application, the person to whom consent was given
shall notify the court in which the complaint for divorce or the petition for
dissolution of marriage was filed in writing.
         (b)   The consenting person or the person to whom consent was given
files an Ohio protection order against the other person or an Ohio protection
order is issued against the other person, and the person to be protected under
the order is the consenting person. Not later than 72 hours after being served
with the Ohio protection order, the person to whom consent was given shall
lawfully uninstall or discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking
application. If the person to whom consent was given cannot lawfully uninstall
or discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking application, the person
to whom consent was given shall notify the court that issued the Ohio
protection order in writing that the person to whom consent was given has
installed or is using a tracking device or tracking application on the
previously consenting person’s person or the person’s property and cannot
uninstall or discontinue its use without violating the Ohio protection order.
      (2)   Revocation of consent under this division is effective upon the
service of the petition or motion or an Ohio protection order.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer, or any law enforcement agency, that
installs a tracking device or tracking application on another person’s property
or causes a tracking device or tracking application to track the position or
movement of another person or another person’s property as part of a criminal
investigation, or a probation officer, parole officer, or employee of the
department of rehabilitation and correction, a halfway house, or a community-
based correctional facility when engaged in the lawful performance of the
officer’s or employee’s official duties;
      (2)   A parent or legal guardian of a minor child who installs or uses a
tracking device or tracking application to track the minor child if any of the
following applies:
         (a)   The parents or legal guardians of the child are lawfully married
to each other and are not separated or otherwise living apart, and either of
those parents or legal guardians consents to the installation of the tracking
device or tracking application;
         (b)   The parent or legal guardian of the child is the sole surviving
parent or legal guardian of the child;
         (c)   The parent or legal guardian of the child has sole custody of
the child;
         (d)   The parents or legal guardians of the child are divorced,
separated, or otherwise living apart and neither parent has sole custody of the
child, and both consent to the installation of the tracking device or tracking
application;
         (e)   The parents or legal guardians of the child are divorced,
separated, or otherwise living apart, neither parent has sole custody of the
child, and either only one parent consents to the installation of the tracking
device or tracking application or one parent revokes consent, if the consenting
parent only uses the tracking device or tracking application during that
parent’s parenting or custodial time and disables or removes the tracking
device or application during the nonconsenting parent’s parenting or custodial
time.
      (3)   A caregiver of an elderly person or disabled adult, if the elderly
person’s or disabled adult’s treating physician certifies that the installation
of a tracking device or tracking application onto the elderly person’s or
disabled adult’s property is necessary to ensure the safety of the elderly
person or disabled adult;
      (4)   A person acting in good faith on behalf of a business entity for a
legitimate business purpose, provided that this division does not apply to a
private investigator engaged in the business of private investigation on behalf
of another person;
      (5)   (a)   A private investigator or other person licensed under R.C. §
4749.03, who is acting in the normal course of the investigator’s business of
private investigation on behalf of another person and who has the consent of
the owner of the property upon which the tracking device or tracking
application is installed, for the purpose of obtaining information with
reference to any of the following:
            1.   Criminal offenses committed, threatened, or suspected against
the United States, a territory of the United States, a state, or any person or
legal entity;
            2.   Locating an individual known to be a fugitive from justice;
            3.   Locating lost or stolen property or other assets that have
been awarded by the court;
            4.   Investigating claims related to workers’ compensation.
         (b)   This division does not apply if the person on whose behalf the
private investigator is working is the subject of an Ohio protection order or a
protection order issued by a court of another state or if the private
investigator knows or reasonably should know that the person on whose behalf
the private investigator is working seeks the investigator’s services to aid in
the commission of a crime.
      (6)   An owner or lessee of a motor vehicle who installs, or directs the
installation of, a tracking device or tracking application on the vehicle
during the period of ownership or lease, if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The tracking device or tracking application is removed before
the vehicle’s title is transferred or the vehicle’s lease expires;
         (b)   The new owner of the vehicle, in the case of a sale, or the
lessor of the vehicle, in the case of an expired lease, consents in writing to
the non-removal of the tracking device or tracking application;
         (c)   The owner of the vehicle at the time of the installation of the
tracking device or tracking application was the original manufacturer of the
vehicle.
      (7)   A person who installs a tracking device or application on property
in which the person has an ownership or contractual interest, unless the person
is the subject of a protective order and the property is likely to be used by
the person who obtained the protective order;
      (8)   A person or business entity that installs a tracking device or
tracking application on any fixed wing aircraft or rotorcraft operated or
managed by the person or business entity pursuant to 14 C.F.R. part 91 or part
135 to track the position or movement of the fixed wing aircraft or rotorcraft;
      (9)   A surety bail bond agent, or any employee or contractor of a surety
bail bond agent, that installs a tracking device or tracking application on
another person’s property or causes a tracking device or tracking application
to track the position or movement of another person or another person’s
property as part of the surety bail bond agent’s, employee’s, or contractor’s
official responsibilities or duties.
   (E)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, a probation officer,
parole officer, or employee of the department of rehabilitation and correction,
a halfway house, or a community-based correctional facility is engaged in the
lawful performance of the officer’s or employee’s duties if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The court or the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction
imposes electronic monitoring on a person.
      (2)   The officer or employee installs or uses an electronic monitoring
device on that person in accordance with the court’s or department’s imposition
of electronic monitoring of that person.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal use of a tracking
device or application.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
illegal use of a tracking device or application is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Illegal use of a tracking device or application is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2903.216, or R.C. § 2903.211 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether the person to be protected under the order is the victim
of the offense or another person.
         (c)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious physical harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
         (d)   The offender has a history of violence toward the victim or a
history of other violent acts towards the victim.
(R.C. § 2903.216)
§ 135.15 RESERVED.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 1, enacting Article 1,
Section 22 to the Ohio Constitution relating to reproductive rights. To ensure
that there are no conflicts with this Constitutional amendment, this section,
relating to unlawful abortion, failure to perform viability testing, and
abortion trafficking, has been removed from this code.
§ 135.16 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21) (Prior Code, § 135.16)
§ 135.17 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H)) (Prior Code, § 135.17)
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.18 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section from the
parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1), (A)
(2) or (A)(3) of this section:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or physical
disability under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused, or dependent children;
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with mental
illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (B)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (A)(1) of this section that the actor reasonably believed that his or
her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (A) of
this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or
judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed
person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (A)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)
suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A)
(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (B) is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23) (Prior Code, § 135.18)
§ 135.19 INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence against
another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) is guilty of interfering with an action
to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A) or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or modify a support order
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2919.231) (Prior Code, § 135.19)
§ 135.20 ABUSING FAMILY.
   Whoever abuses his or her family shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor on
the first offense, and guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each
subsequent offense. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
section, it shall be lawful for the police to enter any house to arrest any
person violating the same.
(Prior Code, § 135.20) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 135.21 POCKET PICKING ATTEMPT.
   Any person who otherwise then by force or violence, or by putting in fear,
attempts to steal and take from the person of another anything of value, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 135.21) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 135.22 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) (Prior Code, § 135.22)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.27
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.23 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
(Prior Code, § 135.23)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.24 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24) (Prior Code, § 135.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.25 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person’s own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
(Prior Code, § 135.25)
§ 135.26 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
(Prior Code, § 135.26)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.27 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27) (Prior Code, § 135.27)
§ 135.28 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 135.28)
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.29 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS;
TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         (g)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         (h)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   (a)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of
this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21
years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   (a)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         (b)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (A)(6)(a)1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)
(e), (A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), (A)(2)(h), (A)(3) or (A)(6) of this section is
guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   (a)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2), if an offender is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)(2)(a) of this
section, the court shall impose a fine in the following amount:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(8)(a)2., (A)(8)
(a)3., (A)(8)(a)4., and (A)(8)(a)5. of this section, not more than $250;
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(8)(a)3., (A)(8)
(a)4., and (A)(8)(a)5. of this section, if an offender has previously been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2)(a) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, not
more than $500;
            3.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(8)(a)4. and (A)
(8)(a)5. of this section, if an offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (A)(2)(a) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, $500;
            4.   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(8)(a)5. of this
section, if an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
three or more violations of division (A)(2)(a) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, $1,000;
            5.   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to four or more violations of division (A)(2)(a) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, $1,500.
         (b)   The financial sanctions required by division (A)(8)(a) of this
section are in lieu of the financial sanctions described in R.C. § 2929.28(A)
(2), but are in addition to any other sanctions or penalties that may apply to
the offender, including other financial sanctions under that section or a jail
term under R.C. § 2929.24.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (10)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         (b)   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words “cigarettes”, “electronic smoking
devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
(Prior Code, § 135.29)
§ 135.30 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031) (Prior Code, § 135.30)
§ 135.31 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 135.31)
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.32 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15) (Prior Code, § 135.32)
§ 135.33 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider’s
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider’s facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, “any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care” includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or mental health or mental retardation and developmental disabilities
facility
   
136.14   Arrest notice; failure to obey
   
136.15   Failure to answer summons
   
136.16   Interfering with authorized persons at emergencies
   
136.17   Assaulting police dog or horse or assistance dog
   
136.18   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.19   Failure to disclose personal information
   
136.20   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.21   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.22   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.23   Using sham legal process
   
136.24   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the non-profit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the non-profit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01) (Prior Code, § 136.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102) (Prior Code, § 136.02)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Prior Code, § 136.03)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   No person who knows that a licensed medical professional has
committed an offense under R.C. Chapter 2907, a violation of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to such offense, or a substantially
equivalent criminal offense in another jurisdiction, against a patient of the
licensed medical professional shall fail to report such knowledge to law
enforcement authorities within 30 days of obtaining the knowledge.
      (2)   Except for a self-report or participation in the offense or
violation being reported, any person who makes a report within the 30-day
period provided in division (F)(1) of this section or any person who
participates in a judicial proceeding that results from such report is immune
from civil or criminal liability that otherwise might be incurred or imposed as
a result of making that report or participating in that proceeding so long as
the person is acting in good faith without fraud or malice.
      (3)   The physician-patient relationship or physician assistant-patient
relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding the person’s
knowledge of a licensed medical professional’s commission of an offense or
violation reported under division (F)(1) of this section, against that licensed
medical professional in any judicial proceeding resulting from a report made
under that division.
      (4)   As used in division (F) of this section, LICENSED MEDICAL
PROFESSIONAL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
   (G)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (G)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (H)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (I)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), or (F)(1) of this section is
guilty of failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) or (F)(1) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)
(2) or (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (K)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (L)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (M)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Prior Code, § 136.04)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23) (Prior Code, § 136.05)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Prior Code, § 136.06)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) (Prior Code, § 136.07)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Prior Code, § 136.08)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Prior Code, § 136.09)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43) (Prior Code, § 136.10)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the legislative
authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Prior Code, § 136.11)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45) (Prior Code, § 136.12)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR MENTAL HEALTH OR MENTAL RETARDATION AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES
FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
(Prior Code, § 136.13)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.10
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.11
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 ARREST NOTICE; FAILURE TO OBEY.
   (A)   Arrest of a person charged with a misdemeanor under an ordinance of
this municipality or section of this code may be made by taking the person
charged into custody or by serving him or her with an arrest notice. Such
arrest notice may be served by the arresting officer when he or she is
satisfied that the defendant will obey the order of arrest and all orders of
the court, and that peace and order will be subserved by not taking such person
into custody. The defendant shall in such cases acknowledge in writing the
service of notice and shall agree to obey its order and all orders of the
court.
   (B)   Failure to obey the order of an arrest notice shall be a minor
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 136.14) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 136.15 FAILURE TO ANSWER SUMMONS.
   If a person summoned to appear as provided in R.C. § 2935.10(B) fails to
appear without just cause and personal service of the summons was had upon the
person, he or she may be found guilty of contempt of court, and may be fined
not to exceed $20 for such contempt. Upon failure to appear, the court or
magistrate may forthwith issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(R.C. § 2935.11) (Prior Code, § 136.15)
§ 136.16 INTERFERING WITH AUTHORIZED PERSONS AT EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   No person shall willfully obstruct, impede or hamper in any way the
lawful operation of Sheriffs, police officers, deputies or other law
enforcement officers, or of firefighters, rescue personnel, medical personnel
or other authorized persons, at the scene of fires, accidents, disasters or
emergencies of any kind, and no person shall willfully fail to obey the lawful
order of any Sheriff, police officer, deputy or other law enforcement officer
engaged in the performance of his or her duties at the scene of or in
connection with fires, accidents, disasters or emergencies of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access of or deny
information to news media representatives in the lawful performance of their
work.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 136.17) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 136.17 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321) (Prior Code, § 136.18)
§ 136.18 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
(Prior Code, § 136.19)
§ 136.19 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
(Prior Code, § 136.20)
§ 136.20 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14) (Prior Code, § 136.21)
§ 136.21 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25) (Prior Code, § 136.22)
§ 136.22 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04) (Prior Code, § 136.23)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.23 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D)) (Prior Code, § 136.24)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.24 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15) (Prior Code, § 136.25)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Discharging firearms; hunting
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearms or handgun
   
137.09   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.10   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.11   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.12   Defaced firearms
   
137.13   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.14   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.15   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.06
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.39
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.26
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small- arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the Gun Control Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the National
Firearms Act, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the Gun
Control Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found by
the Bureau not to be regulated under the National Firearms Act, 68A Stat. 725
(1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11) (Prior Code, § 137.01)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Prior Code, § 137.02)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15) (Prior Code, § 137.03)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Prior Code, § 137.04)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 DISCHARGING FIREARMS; HUNTING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in hunting or discharge any cannon, pistol or
other firearm of any kind whatsoever within the city. This section shall not
prohibit the firing of a military salute or the firing of weapons by persons of
the nation’s armed forces acting under military authority, and shall not apply
to law enforcement officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self-defense. This section shall
not prohibit the discharging of a pistol or other firearm of any kind within
the city on ranges constructed in conformance with plans approved by the City
Manager.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 137.05) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19) (Prior Code, § 137.06)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20) (Prior Code, § 137.07)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARMS OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211) (Prior Code, § 137.08)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee’s
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation. The immunities described in this division apply to an
entity that leases its property to the nonprofit corporation or permits its
property to be used by the nonprofit corporation for any purpose.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
         (d)   A fire investigator who is qualified to carry firearms while on
duty under R.C. § 109.774 has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in
this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. §
2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         FIRE INVESTIGATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 109.71.
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NON-PROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
(Prior Code, § 137.09)
§ 137.10 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G)) (Prior Code, § 137.10)
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131) (Prior Code, § 137.11)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.12 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201) (Prior Code, § 137.12)
§ 137.13 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24) (Prior Code, § 137.13)
§ 137.14 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 137.14)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.15 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18) (Prior Code, § 137.15)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possession of drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Dispensing nitrous oxide
   
138.10   Laboratory report required
   
138.11   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.12   Barbiturates and amphetamines (downers and uppers)
   
138.13   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.14   Use, possession or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.15   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.16   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.17   Pseudoephedrine sales
   
138.18   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.19   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.20   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.21   Sale of dextromethorphan
   
138.22   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER’S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider’s
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a barber’s license, barber
instructor’s license, assistant barber instructor’s license, or independent
contractor’s license under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced license to practice cosmetology, advanced license
to practice hair design, advanced license to practice manicuring, advanced
license to practice esthetics, advanced license to practice natural hair
styling, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair design instructor’s license,
manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics instructor’s license, natural hair
style instructor’s license, independent contractor’s license, or tanning
facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules;
      (38)   A person who has been issued a license to practice as a certified
mental health assistant under R.C. Chapter 4772.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01)
(Prior Code, § 138.01)
§ 138.02 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99) (Prior Code, § 138.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
4741, and 4772.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2929.24,
and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in
addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, if applicable, the court
shall also do the following:
      (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11) (Prior Code, § 138.03)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSION OF DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, and 4772.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12) (Prior Code, § 138.04)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the clerk of
the court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
   (F)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
(Prior Code, § 138.05)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)) (Prior Code, § 138.06)
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver's or commercial driver's license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31) (Prior Code, § 138.07)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, and 4772.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the clerk of
the court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (D), (F)) (Prior Code, § 138.08)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 DISPENSING NITROUS OXIDE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33) (Prior Code, § 138.09)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.10 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
(Prior Code, § 138.10)
§ 138.11 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19) (Prior Code, § 138.11)
§ 138.12 BARBITURATES AND AMPHETAMINES (DOWNERS AND UPPERS).
   (A)   No person shall, with intent to produce intoxication, elation,
paralysis, irrational conduct or the changing, distortion or disturbance of the
thinking process, judgment, balance or coordination, use any barbiturate or
amphetamine, as defined in R. C. § 3719.23. However, this section shall not
apply to the use of any barbiturate or amphetamine by licensed manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, physicians and other persons
for research, clinical or medicinal purposes authorized by federal law or state
law, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   No person shall induce or attempt to induce another person to
unlawfully use any barbiturate or amphetamine; or employ, induce or use a minor
to unlawfully transport, carry, dispense, produce or manufacture any
barbiturate or amphetamine; or induce or attempt to induce a minor to violate
any of the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 138.12) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974)
§ 138.13 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 138.13)
§ 138.14 USE, POSSESSION OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, and 4772. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141) (Prior Code, § 138.14)
§ 138.15 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G)) (Prior Code, § 138.15)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.16 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 138.16)
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.17 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six-tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
4741, or 4772;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
(Prior Code, § 138.17)
§ 138.18 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 138.18)
§ 138.19 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 138.19)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.20 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.21 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
§ 138.22 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
CHAPTER 139: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
139.01   Abuse of corpse
   
139.02   Unvented heaters
   
139.03   Abandoned refrigerators
   
139.04   Littering public ways
   
139.05   Maintaining a nuisance
   
139.06   Depositing poison
   
139.07   Littering by projectiles
   
139.08   Sidewalks to be kept free of rubbish
   
139.09   Erecting sign across street
   
139.10   Adulterating candy or food
   
139.11   Radio reception interference
   
139.12   Selling or discharging fireworks prohibited
   
139.13   Curfew; prohibited activities
   
139.14   Deposit of dead animals or offal
   
139.15   Hauling uncovered garbage
   
139.16   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion or the like
   
139.17   Ethnic intimidation
   
139.18   Curfew for minors
§ 139.01 ABUSE OF CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01) (Prior Code, § 139.01)
§ 139.02 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use”.
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 139.03)
§ 139.03 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on premises
under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned or
discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight container
which has a capacity of 1.5 cubic feet or more and an opening of 50 square
inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a hinge, latch, or
other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without rendering
the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches or other
hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This section shall
not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer, warehouse or
repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 139.04)
§ 139.04 LITTERING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   No owner, occupant or tenant of any house, building or lot within the
city shall discharge, cast, throw, place or deposit any boxes, baskets, crates,
barrels, coops or containers or any merchandise or rubbish in and upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, gutter or other public ground.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.05) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 139.05 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 139.06)
§ 139.06 DEPOSITING POISON.
   (A)   No person shall leave or deposit dangerous drugs, poisons or
substances containing dangerous drugs or poisons in a common, street, alley,
lane, or thoroughfare or a yard or enclosure occupied by another. Whoever
violates this section shall be liable to the person injured for all damages
sustained as a result of leaving or depositing the dangerous drugs, poisons or
other substances.
(R.C. § 3719.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of this section or a drug abuse offense, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(F))
(Prior Code, § 139.07) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 139.07 LITTERING BY PROJECTILES.
   (A)   No person shall shoot, force or throw by means of an air gun or other
arm or implement, a lead, iron or other hard substance upon a street, alley,
lane, public place or onto the property of another.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.08) (Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-1977)
§ 139.08 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FREE OF RUBBISH.
   Whoever, being the owner, agent, lessee, occupant or person otherwise in
charge or control of any premises abutting a public street, shall, after
notification by a police officer, fail to remove from the sidewalk area along
such premises with reasonable promptness all debris, rubbish, litter and other
matter which may at any time accumulate or be deposited thereon from any cause
whatever, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each day’s failure to remove
shall constitute a separate offense. For the purpose of this section, the
SIDEWALK AREA shall mean the entire area from the property line to the
established curb line or paving.
(Prior Code, § 139.09) (Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-1977)
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
139.04
§ 139.09 ERECTING SIGN ACROSS STREET.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect a sign or banner across a public
street within the city. The failure of the person, firm or corporation erecting
such sign to remove it upon notice of the City Manager shall be a minor
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.10) (Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-1977)
§ 139.10 ADULTERATING CANDY OR FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall place pins, needles, razor blades, drugs of abuse,
harmful or hazardous substances or other dangerous objects in any food or
confection with intent to harm the consumer or user thereof, nor shall any
person knowingly furnish any food or confection containing such substance or
object to another.
   (B)   The presence of any such substance or object in any food or confection
is prima facie evidence that such substance or object was intentionally placed
therein.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Prior Code, § 139.11) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 139.11 RADIO RECEPTION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall knowingly use or cause to be used
to maintain and operate, or cause to be maintained and operated, any device,
appliance, equipment or apparatus in such manner as to cause electrostatic or
electromagnetic waves or high frequency oscillations or radiations which
interfere with radio broadcast receiving apparatus or wireless receiving
apparatus. However a person duly licensed to practice medicine, osteopathy,
dentistry or any limited branch or branches of medicine or surgery, duly
licensed by the state, in the course of the practice of his or her profession,
may operate or cause to be operated under his or her direct supervision, any
machine necessary to give such treatment, provided that all reasonable methods
of preventing interference with radio broadcasting reception, either through
insulation, screening of the roofs or premises in which such operation shall be
conducted, or other reasonable and approved methods of interference prevention
shall be installed and used.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.12) (Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-1977)
§ 139.12 SELLING OR DISCHARGING FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The term FIREWORKS, as used in this section, shall mean all rockets,
roman candles, bombs, balloons, wheels and other substances and devices for
pyrotechnic display; all firecrackers, blank cartridges, torpedoes and
concussion canes, pistols and other devices for the explosion of caps or
cartridges, or any substance designed or intended to produce a visible or
audible pyrotechnic effect, by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall offer for sale at retail, or sell
at retail, or loan, barter, deliver, give away or possess within the city, any
fireworks as defined in division (A) of this section, except to holders of
permits as provided in division (D) hereof.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall purchase at retail, or receive,
use, fire, set off, discharge, set in motion or ignite, within the limitation
of the city, any fireworks as defined in division (A) above except as provided
in division (D) hereof.
   (D)   Special permission may be granted to persons, firms or corporations
for the purpose of fireworks as defined in division (A), and for their use at a
public gathering or in a public parade, provided an application is filed with
the City Manager, setting forth the name of the applicant, the time and the
place of the exhibition or parade. The City Manager, on being satisfied that
the fireworks will be used as stipulated in the application, and being
satisfied that all reasonable precautions will be exercised with regard to the
protection of all property and the safety of all persons, may issue a permit
which shall allow the use of the fireworks at the time and place set out in the
application.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
divisions (B) or (C) of this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.13) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention code, see
Chapter 91
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, R.C. § 3743.01
   Permit to use fireworks, R.C. § 3743.54
   Sale and use of fireworks, R.C. § 3743.65
§ 139.13 CURFEW; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The Manager, or in the absence of the Manager, the Mayor, or in the
absence of the Manager and Mayor, the Vice-Mayor of the city, when engaged in
suppressing a riot, mob action or other substantial civil disorders, or when he
or she has concluded that a state of emergency exists because there is a clear
and present danger of riot, mob action or other substantial civil disorders
within the city, may impose a curfew throughout the area threatened by such
actions by prohibiting or regulating the sale, offering for sale, dispensing or
transportation of alcoholic beverages, explosives, guns, other weapons and
gasoline in, to or from the area subject such curfew.
   (B)   In any complaint, action or proceeding brought for the enforcement of
any part of this section, it shall not be necessary to negative any exception
contained in such sections, and the burden of proof of any such exception shall
be upon the defendant.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 139.14) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974; Ord. 1306, passed 6-13-
1977)
§ 139.14 DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS OR OFFAL.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal, or the offal from a
slaughterhouse, butcher’s establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish or other putrid substance or the contents of a privy
vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, field, meadow, public ground, market place or common.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of such place shall knowingly permit such thing
to retain therein to the annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate
the nuisance occasioned thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the
existence thereof, or after notice thereof in writing from the City Manager.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.15) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974)
§ 139.15 HAULING UNCOVERED GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person shall haul, convey or transport any garbage, paper or refuse
of any kind whatsoever over or upon the streets, thoroughfares, alleys and ways
of the city, without having the garbage, paper or refuse securely covered and
confined by tarpaulin, or otherwise.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.16) (Ord. 1169, passed 6-10-1974)
§ 139.16 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03) (Prior Code, § 139.17)
§ 139.17 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12) (Prior Code, § 139.18)
§ 139.18 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. There is a legitimate governmental interest in addressing the
number of crimes committed by juvenile offenders, as well as protecting the
citizens and property of the city. Further, there is a legitimate governmental
interest in protecting the peace and quiet of the community from the
disturbances that juvenile offenders may cause. Therefore, the Council of the
city has determined that it is necessary for the public peace, health, safety
and welfare to institute a curfew for minors.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ADULT PERSON. A person, 18 years or older, who is authorized by a parent
or guardian of the minor to have the care and custody of such minor.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that creates a substantial health risk that
necessitates immediate medical attention from a medical professional.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances, or the resulting
state, that call for immediate action. The term includes but is not limited to
a fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent or mitigate bodily injury or loss of life.
      EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITY. Any bona fide or legal service performed for wages
or salary under contract, written, expressed or implied.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of a minor, or
a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a court.
      LAWFUL ACTIVITY. Includes or is substantially equivalent to the
following:
         (a)   Involvement in employment activity;
         (b)   Attending an activity organized and supervised by adults
sponsored by a county, state municipality or township, school district, civic
organization or other similar organization which takes responsibility for the
minor, or attending an official school or religious activity; or
         (c)   Proceeding to or coming from lawful activities described in (a)
or (b) above without any detour or stop.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age who is not married or otherwise
emancipated.
      PARENT. A person who is the natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent
of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, and includes but is not limited to streets, highways, parks
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transportation facilities, shops, shopping centers, malls and restaurants,
including the parking lots thereto.
      SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY. The time commencing on the
evening of the stated day, through and including the morning of the following
day, with the exception that curfew times beginning after 12:00 midnight
actually begin on the early morning of the following day through and including
the morning of that same following day. Thus, Friday between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. means Saturday morning between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. and Saturday
between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. means Sunday morning between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (C)   Prohibition. No minor shall be upon or in the public streets, parks,
buildings or establishments, or upon or in public places, open lands or vacant
lots within the city, Sunday through Thursday, between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
(midnight) and 6:00 a.m. of the following morning, and Friday and Saturday
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following morning, except
as provided in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (4)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or the
sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent or
guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer; or
      (5)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel.
   (E)   Duty of parent, guardian or other adult. No parent, guardian or other
adult having the care and custody of a minor shall knowingly permit such minor
to be upon or in the public streets, parks, buildings or establishments or upon
or in public places, open lands or vacant lots within the city between the
hours prohibited in division (C) of this section; provided, however, this
division shall not apply to exceptions set forth in division (D) of this
section.
   (F)   Penalty. Any minor who violates this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and dealt with in accordance with juvenile court law and
procedure. Any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor who violates division (E) of this section shall be guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 139.19) (Ord. 05-35, passed 4-10-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND USAGE AND ZONING
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
      
153.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
154.   SIGNS
      
155.   LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES REGULATED
      
156.   FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
CHAPTER 150: LAND USAGE AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Definitions
   
150.002   Meanings of words and phrases
   
150.003   Continued validity
   
150.004   Violations
   
150.005   Continued use
   
150.006   Use change restrictions
   
150.007   Area reduction limit
   
150.008   Building limitations
   
150.009   Existing nonconforming uses
   
150.010   Reconstruction limit for nonconforming use
   
150.011   House and building numbering requirements
   
150.012   Zoning districts and boundaries
   
150.013   Lot requirements
Administrative Bodies and Procedure
   
150.025   Permits required
   
150.026   Conditional use procedures
   
150.027   Dimensional variance
   
150.028   Planning Commission
   
150.029   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
150.030   Architectural Review Office
   
150.031   Schedule of fees
Residence and Recreational Districts
   
150.045   Residence District uses (R-1, R-2, R-3)
   
150.046   Permitted accessory uses in residence districts
   
150.047   Home offices in residence districts
   
150.048   Conditional uses in residence districts
   
150.049   Residence zone fencing
   
150.050   Conversion of existing accessory buildings
   
150.051   Parking
   
150.052   Panhandle lots
   
150.053   Structures attached to the principal residence
   
150.054   Garage sales
   
150.055   Swimming pools
   
150.056   Outdoor Recreation One District (O-1)
Business and Enterprise Districts
   
150.070   Business and Enterprise Districts (B-1, B-2, B-3)
   
150.071   Outdoor dining
   
150.072   Parking in business and enterprise districts
   
150.073   Setbacks
   
150.074   Business One - “The Downtown District (“Main Street Madeira”)” (B-1)
   
150.075   Business Two - “Montgomery Road Enterprise District” (B-2)
   
150.076   Business Three - “Makers, Retailers and Auxiliary District” (B-3)
The Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.090   The Downtown District (B-1); purposes and uses
   
150.091   The Downtown District (B-1) boundaries
   
150.092   The Downtown District (B-1) applicability
   
150.093   Review procedures in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.094   The Downtown District (B-1) permitting
   
150.095   The Downtown District (B-1) process
   
150.096   The Downtown District (B-1) architectural standards
   
150.097   The Downtown District (B-1) architectural styles
   
150.098   Building scale and massing in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.099   Roof forms in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.100   Entries and store front facades in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.101   Fenestration (windows and doors) in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.102   Exterior finish materials and colors in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.103   Awnings or fabric canopies in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.104   Mechanical equipment in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.105   The Downtown District (B-1) site standards purpose
   
150.106   Setbacks and build-to lines in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.107   Large building exception in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.108   Corner lots and sight triangles in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.109   Vehicular access in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.110   Landscaping and screening in the Downtown District (B-1)
   
150.111   Lighting in the Downtown District (B-1)
Zoning District Overlays
   
150.125   Transitional Overlay District
   
150.126   Transitional Overlay District #2
   
150.127   Transitional Overlay District #3
   
150.128   Transitional Residential Overlay District
Residential-Scale Business Overlay District
   
150.140   Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations
   
150.141   District boundaries
   
150.142   Standard applicability
   
150.143   Purpose
   
150.144   Review procedures
   
150.145   Zoning permit required
   
150.146   Application process
   
150.147   Definitions
   
150.148   Purposes and uses
   
150.149   Permitted/conditional uses
   
150.150   Purpose of architectural standards in RSBOD
   
150.151   Building scale and massing
   
150.152   Roof forms
   
150.153   Entries
   
150.154   Fenestration (windows and doors)
   
150.155   Exterior finish materials and colors
   
150.156   Awnings or fabric canopies
   
150.157   Mechanical equipment
   
150.158   Purpose of site standards in RSBOD
   
150.159   Minimum lot size
   
150.160   Setbacks
   
150.161   Parking
   
150.162   Vehicular access
   
150.163   Landscaping and buffering
   
150.164   Lighting
Miscellaneous
   
150.175   Specifications for sewers, streets and sidewalks
   
150.176   Club pools
   
150.177   Dish-type satellite and receiving stations
   
150.178   Cellular or wireless communication systems
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCENT MATERIAL. Decorative material applied to the facade of a building to
add visual interest.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building that is detached from the principal building.
Its use is related, subordinate, and customarily incidental to the use of the
principal building on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is detached from the principal
building. Its use is related, subordinate and customarily incidental to the use
of the principal building on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or building, or portion thereof, customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and
located on the same lot with the principal use.
   ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW OFFICER (“ARO”). The professional architect responsible
for the review and approval of architectural elements of submitted permit
applications, appointed by the City Manager and approved by City Council.
   ARTICULATION. To divide a building’s facade into distinct and significant
parts. (See Figure 1 below.)
   ATTACHED TOWNHOUSE STYLE RESIDENCE. A residential structure in which each
dwelling unit has its own entrance and exit, and each unit occupies the ground
level on at least one floor.
   AWNING. A non-load bearing roof-like cover of canvas, similar fabric, or
standing seam metal roof over a frame, designed and intended for protection
from the weather or as a decorative embellishment, which projects from a wall
or roof of a structure over a window, walk or door, and is supported entirely
by attachment to a building wall. (See Figure 1.)
   Figure 1: Building shows articulation, awning and belt courses
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4266.png]
   BALCONY.
      (1)   An exterior floor system projecting from an adjoining structure
that is attached to or supported by the adjoining structure, with no additional
independent supports.
      (2)   A BALCONY may be covered or uncovered.
   BELT COURSE. A slight recess or projection of masonry or similar material
running horizontally through a facade. (See
Figure 1.)
   BRICK APPLIQUE. An exterior cladding of traditional brick materials of less
than one inch in thickness, applied to an underlying structural support wall
such as one of concrete masonry units using a mortar or float technique, which
results in the appearance of a traditional brick finish.
   BRICK VENEER. An exterior cladding of traditional brick materials of less
than one inch in thickness, applied to an underlying structural support wall
such as one of concrete masonry units using a mortar or float technique, which
results in the appearance of a traditional brick finish.
   BUILDING CODE. The building code ordinances of the City of Madeira, Ohio
adopted by ordinances and codified as
Chapter 152.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. This shall be calculated by determining the difference in
elevation from the ground level, at the designated point, to the highest
elevation of the roof of the building (excluding any chimney or antenna). The
designated point at which to measure the ground level elevation shall be at the
horizontal center of the side of a building nearest a public street where the
side of the building intersects with the ground level. Generally, this will be
the front of the building. On a corner lot if the building is equidistant from
each street, it shall be the side with the lower ground elevation. The natural
or existing topography shall be used to determine elevation of the ground level
at the location unless the City Manager determines that a higher ground
elevation is appropriate because of unusual difficulties with topography or
site development.
   BUILD-TO-LINE. A line established in the interior of the lot parallel to the
property line or right-of-way line which defines the plane to which a building
shall be set. The effect is buildings consistently placed along the frontage of
a street or block to create a consistent street wall.
   BULKHEAD.
      (1)   The part of the facade that forms a base for one or more windows on
the ground floor.
      (2)    Typically found in traditional storefronts.
      (3)   See Figure 2.
   Figure 2: The bulkhead is located under the windows
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4268.png]
   BUFFERYARD. An area of healthy and viable vegetation, natural or planted,
installed and maintained for the purposes of separating and screening the
effects of a higher intensity land use upon a lower intensity land use and that
contains only vegetation and no part of which is used for parking or driveways.
   BUILDING. A structure, of more or less permanent construction, having a roof
and intended to be used for sheltering people, animals, property or business
activity.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.
      (1)   Business One - Downtown District - Main Street Madeira B-1;
      (2)   Business Two -Montgomery Road Enterprise District B-2; or
      (3)   Business Three - Makers, Retailers, and Auxiliary District B-3.
   CANTILEVER. A structural horizontal projection of an upper portion of a
building, which has no visible exterior vertical supports and is supported only
by the wall from which it emerges.
   CANOPY. A freestanding structure consisting of vertical supports and an
overhead support system clad in fabric or metal roofing to provide partial
protection from the elements.
   CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Personal communications accessed by means
of cellular equipment and services.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. Any structure or device used to
receive or transmit electromagnetic waves between cellular phones, pagers,
commercial mobile services, wireless services and ground-wired communications
systems including both bi-directional antennas, such as panels, microwave
dishes and satellite dishes, and omni-directional antennas such as whips and
other equipment utilized to serve personal communication services.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SITE. A tract, lot or parcel of land
that contains the cellular or wireless communications tower, antenna, support
structures, parking and any other uses associated with and ancillary to
cellular or wireless communications transmission.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or
structure, including equipment shelter, guy wire anchors, accessory to but
necessary for the proper functioning of the cellular or wireless communications
antenna or tower.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any freestanding structure used
to support a cellular or wireless communications antenna.
   CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER, HEIGHT OF. The height from the
base of the structure, at grade, to its top; including any antenna located
thereon. Grade shall be determined as the elevations of the natural or existing
topography of the ground level prior to construction of the tower.
   CEMENT VENEER.
      (1)   A veneer of cement or fired clay made to create synthetic stone
finished surface.
      (2)   Veneers can be applied to an exterior surface with an adhesive and
thereby produce the effect of a stone or masonry wall without being structural.
   CITY. City of Madeira, Ohio.
   CITY MANAGER. The official administrative professional responsible for the
daily management of the city’s functions.
   CITY MANAGER’S DESIGNEE.
      (1)   Any person employed by the City Manager to perform a task related
to the review of permit applications to the city.
      (2)   This may include an Assistant to the City Manager, a Planner,
Zoning Administrator, engineer, architect or any other professional to assist
the City Manager in the assessment of applications.
   CLERESTORY. An upper story row of windows, or windows so placed. Often
applied when there is not an actual interior corresponding floor. (See Figure
3.)
   Figure 3: The upper row of windows on this single story building represents
a clerestory
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4270.png]
   CLUB POOL. A swimming pool that ten or more persons not of the same family
have at any time and by way of membership, securities, part ownership or other
arrangement, the right to use.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle, no matter what its gross vehicle weight, used or
designed to be used for business or commercial purposes and which, in addition,
negatively infringes upon the residential character of a residence district.
These vehicles include, but are not limited to, a bus, cement truck, panel
truck, semi-tractor, semi-trailer or any other non-recreational trailer used
for commercial purposes, stake bed truck, step van, tank truck, tar truck, dump
truck; or
      (2)   Any other vehicle that is designed or rated by the manufacturer for
more than 8,800 pounds gross vehicle weight and is licensed by the State Bureau
of Motor Vehicles as either a truck or a commercial vehicle.
   CORNER LOT. Any lot abutting upon intersecting streets at their
intersections, or upon two parts of the same street where they form an interior
angle of less than 135 degrees.
   CORNICE. Dimensional detail consisting of trims, panels, brackets, and/or
corbels projecting at the uppermost or crowning portion of a wall or facade.
Also known as a CROWN MOLDING. (See Figure 4.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4272.png]
   Figure 4: Cornice at the top line of a building facade
   DECK. An exterior floor system constructed of wood, metal, composite or
other like material, which is either attached to or detached from the principal
building or dwelling and is supported by an adjoining structure and/or posts,
piers or other independent supports. A DECK attached to or detached from the
principal building or dwelling shall be no larger than 25% of the footprint of
the principal building or dwelling.
   DINING ENCROACHMENT. Stands, tables, umbrellas, chairs, displays, signs,
banners, flags, objects related to the business or other items of private
property placed on sidewalks or other areas of the public right-of-way to
provide or enhance outdoor dining.
   DINING PREMISES. The real estate owned, leased or rented by the licensed
indoor dining establishment.
   DIVIDED LIGHT WINDOWS. Windows which are traditional in appearance,
comprised of several panes of glass separated by wooden or lead glazing bars or
a single pane of glass with decorative glazing bars.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The B-1 Business District.
   DWELLING. A building or structure designed and occupied exclusively for
residential use and other permitted uses by one family, but not including a
tent, cabin, trailer, hotel, motel, fraternities, sororities or mobile home.
   ECLECTIC ARCHITECTURE. A building style or the style of a collection of
buildings, which draws from a variety of recognized architectural styles,
periods or sources without being a true facsimile of any one specific genre. It
may also mean a district, which does not have one consistently applied
architectural style, but exhibits a mix of styles.
   EXTERIOR BUILDING MATERIALS. The exterior weatherproofing cladding or
covering of a building, which is applied to an underlying structural form.
EXTERIOR BUILDING MATERIALS may but do not necessarily provide structural
support. EXTERIOR BUILDING MATERIALS are visible and contribute to the design
and character of the facade and roof forms.
   FACADE. The exterior face or wall of a building. The face may be referred to
as either a PRIMARY OR A SECONDARY FACADE.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons customarily living
together as a single housekeeping unit and using common cooking facilities, but
shall not include a group occupying a hotel, club, boarding or lodging house,
motel, sorority house, fraternity house, group home or any premises being used
for a short-term rental.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal or other manufactured material or combination of materials erected to
enclose, screen or separate areas, to mark a boundary, or to protect privacy.
   FENESTRATION. Window and other openings in a building’s facade.
   GARAGE SALE. Any garage sale, yard sale, home sale or any other attempt to
sell personal property, for a limited period of time, on a property within a
residence district.
   GLAZING. Fitted or covered with glass.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. Same definition as BUILDING HEIGHT.
   HOME OFFICE. A business, profession, occupation or trade that conducted
within a dwelling for the economic gain or support of a resident of the
dwelling and is incidental and secondary to the residential use of the lot and
does not adversely or perceptively affect the character of the lot or
surrounding area.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A person that participates in the transient rental
business by providing, and collecting or receiving a fee for, booking service
through an online platform that allows an operator to advertise the rental
property through a website hosted by the hosting platform. Examples of hosting
platforms, include, but are not limited to, Airbnb, VRBO and HomeAway.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACES. Surfaces that prevent or substantially impede the
passage, absorption and/or infiltration of water, including stormwater, into
the soil, including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, parking lots,
driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, surfaces constructed of asphalt or concrete,
brick or concrete pavers, and compacted gravel surfaces.
   INDEPENDENT LIVING BUILDING. A building which contains complete housing
units for individual use, each including a bathroom, living room and at least
one bedroom (or a living room/bedroom in a studio unit), which may include
related transportation services and facilities such as congregate dining,
social gathering areas, library, prayer chapel and exercise room, but which
does not include nursing type facilities.
   IN-LAW SUITE. An independent dwelling unit contained within a single-family
dwelling, typically with its own entrance, kitchen, bedroom, and bathroom, and
used exclusively for family members of the owner of the dwelling, who must also
reside within the dwelling and use the dwelling as his and/or her primary
residence.
   KICK PLATE. A hard plate or veneer fitted to the lower portions of a
building, including the lower rail of a door, bulkhead or risers of a step to
prevent damage from moderate impact. Also referred to as a TOE KICK.
   LANDING or STOOP. An elevated, open structure that is located at the head or
foot of a staircase or ramp, or a platform in a flight of stairs or ramp.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land whose area, in addition to the parts thereof
now or hereafter occupied by a building and its accessory structures, is
sufficient to furnish the yards and courts required for compliance with this
zoning code as to all future construction.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area which is covered by buildings
and structures, excluding uncovered decks.
   LOT WIDTH. The average length of all lines within the lot parallel to the
street.
   MICRO ANTENNAS. Any cellular or wireless communication antennas which
consist solely of the antenna and which do not have any supporting structures
other than brackets, including micro cells. MICRO ANTENNAS shall be equal to or
less than five feet in height and with an area of not more than 580 square
inches.
   MIXED-USE. A building with multiple stories where the ground floor is
occupied by a business user (retail, service, office) and the upper stories are
occupied by either a different business user or residential units.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled recreational vehicle constructed with
permanently installed facilities for cold storage, cooking and consuming of
food, and for sleeping.
   OUTDOOR DINING. An area not enclosed in a building and which is intended as
an accessory area to a restaurant or other retail establishment. Specifically
not regulated by this section are city parks, residence districts, mobile food
vendors, city-authorized special events such as street dances and street block
parties, and activities on property primarily used for institutional purposes
such as schools, churches, governmental uses and private clubs such as swim,
golf and tennis clubs.
   PANHANDLE LOT. Any lot that has all the following characteristics:
      (1)   It does not front on a public right-of-way except by a strip of
property which is narrower than the required frontage or width of lots in the
zoning district;
      (2)   The majority of the area of the PANHANDLE LOT is situated
immediately behind one or more lots (front lots) relative to the right-of-way
to which the PANHANDLE LOT has access. The front lot does have sufficient width
and frontage; and
      (3)   The intended use of the PANHANDLE LOT is for a single dwelling,
separate and apart from the front lot.
   PARAPET. A facade extension above the true or finished roof line of a
building.
   PAVED SURFACE. Either asphalt or cement surface or other improved surface
which is specifically approved by the Planning Commission.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to the unenclosed parking of multiple
motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. An area enclosed or unenclosed, covered or open, of
sufficient size to park vehicles, together with a driveway connecting the
parking space with a street or any public area and permitting ingress and
egress of vehicles.
   PEDIMENT. A triangular shaped gable or architectural element between a
horizontal entablature and a sloping roof or molding.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless
services and common carrier wireless exchange access services, including
cellular services.
   PILASTER. A slightly-projecting column built into or applied to the face of
a wall. Most commonly flattened or rectangular in form, PILASTERS can also take
a half-round form or the shape of any type of column, including tortile. They
occur very commonly in eighteenth and nineteenth century door surrounds.
   PORCH. An open structure entirely covered with a roof and attached to the
principal building or dwelling.
   PREMISES. Any lot, plot, tract or parcel of land, or any part thereof,
including any buildings, structures, property and appurtenances thereon.
   PRIMARY FACADE. A primary facade is visible from an adjacent roadway and can
be considered the front of the structure. Buildings on a corner lot may have
more than one PRIMARY FACADE.
   PVC (POLYVINYL CHLORIDE). A vinyl polymer commonly used in pipes, signs,
ceiling tiles and wires.
   QUOINING. Dressed stones or bricks at the corners of buildings, laid so that
their faces are alternately large and small. Originally used to add strength to
the masonry wall, they are now used for more decorative purposes.
   RAMP. A sloping walkway or passage used to join and provide a smooth
transition between two levels of different elevations.
   REAR LINE. A line entirely within the lot, ten feet long and parallel to and
at the maximum distance from the street.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure designed and
constructed to be primarily used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational, camping and vacation uses, including but not limited to, a motor
home, travel trailer and a truck camper.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
      (1)   Residence One R-1;
      (2)   Residence Two R-2; or
      (3)   Residence Three R-3.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure that holds back soil or rock from a building,
structure or area and prevents or mitigates downslope movement or erosion and
provides support for vertical or near vertical grade changes.
   ROOF FORM. The shape of the roof, primarily determined by the pitch of the
roof. Basic roof forms are flat, gabled, hipped, arched and domed.
   SECONDARY FACADE. Refers to a side or rear exterior wall, which is not
visible from an adjacent roadway.
   SHARED ACCESS POINT. A single vehicular access point or driveway shared by
two or more properties on adjoining lots, which may cross a side lot line. A
SHARED ACCESS POINT requires an access easement.
   SHARED PARKING. Joint utilization of a parking area or parking spaces for
more than one use.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The rental of any premises, building, structure,
dwelling, room or appurtenance, wholly or partly, to a person for fewer than 28
consecutive days in exchange for a fee, whether such fee is paid by such person
directly to the owner, operator, permanent occupant, a hosting platform or
otherwise.
   SIDING. An exterior cladding or covering applied to the structural elements
of a building to provide weatherproofing, durability and design elements.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped proportion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists
entering or leaving the intersection.
   SIGN CODE. The sign ordinances of the City of Madeira, Ohio adopted by
ordinances and codified as Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. A building designed exclusively for the
occupancy by one non-transient family or housekeeping unit.
   STRING COURSE. A slight recess or projection of masonry or similar material
running horizontally through a facade.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings, sheds,
detached garages, cabins and manufactured homes.
   TALL STRUCTURES. Any of the following structures or buildings: smoke stacks;
water towers; buildings over 35 feet in height; antenna support structures of
cellular or wireless communication companies; and cellular or wireless
communications towers.
   TRANSOM. A window or glazed component set above other windows or openings,
traditionally set close to the ceiling to promote ventilation. A component of
traditional storefronts.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A non-self-propelled recreational vehicle that includes a
tent-type fold-out camping trailer, as defined in R.C. § 4517.01.
   TRIM. Linear elements applied to or structurally integrated into the facade
of a building, which delineates, adds emphasis to an architectural element, or
covers a transition or joining of materials to present a more finished
appearance.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A non-self-propelled, recreational vehicle, without wheels for
road use, and designed to be placed upon and attached to a motor vehicle.
   WALL. An architectural partition with a height and length greater than its
thickness; used to divide or enclose an area or to support another structure.
   WATER TABLE. A horizontal projecting string course, molding or ledge placed
to divert rainwater from a building’s foundation. In traditional buildings,
this element is often placed at or above the sill between the foundation and
the base of the structural wall.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided in this zoning code.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot, between any
part of the residence or principal building located thereon and the front lot
line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of a lot, between any part of
the residence or principal building located thereon and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from a front yard to a rear yard between any
part of the residence or principal building and the nearest side lot line.
   ZONING CODE. The comprehensive zoning ordinances of the City of Madeira,
Ohio adopted by ordinances and codified as this
Chapter 150.
   ZONING MAP. The zoning map of the City of Madeira, Ohio. This map, together
with all explanatory data thereon, including all changes thereof as provided
herein, shall be incorporated and made part of this zoning code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.01)
§ 150.002 MEANINGS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this zoning code, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; the singular number shall include the plural, and plural
the singular; the word “building” shall include the word “structure”, the word
“shall” is mandatory and not directory; the word “may” is a permissive
requirement and the word “should” is a preferred requirement; the word “person”
includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or
corporation, as well as an individual; the words “used” or “occupied” include
the words “intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied”; and the word
“lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel”. A table shall be considered text
for purposes of this zoning code. Where a conflict may occur between the text
and any graphic, illustration, or figure, the text shall control.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.02)
§ 150.003 CONTINUED VALIDITY.
   Should any provision of this zoning code be decided by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this zoning code as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so decided
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.03)
§ 150.004 VIOLATIONS.
   In the event that any structure is in the process of erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, conversion, moving or maintenance, or any structure
or land is, or in the process of use is, in violation of any provision of this
zoning code, the City Law Director, in addition to the remedies provided for by
the Revised Code of Ohio and by this zoning code, shall have authority and is
hereby authorized to institute an appropriate action or proceeding in law or in
equity, on behalf of the city, or any board or official thereof, to prevent
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
maintenance, or use, or to restrain, correct or abate such violation.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.04)
§ 150.005 CONTINUED USE.
   Except as provided for in this zoning code, no building, structure or
premises shall be used, and no building or part thereof or other structure
shall be erected, reconstructed, enlarged or altered, contrary to the
regulations herein specified for the district in which such premises, building
or structure is located; provided that nothing in this zoning code, except as
provided in §
150.012, shall require the change of the use made of a building or premises at
such time of enactment, or of the height, location, yards, or courts of any
such existing building.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.05)
§ 150.006 USE CHANGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of any building
or premises or part thereof, hereafter erected, changed, converted, enlarged,
put to use, or changed in use, wholly or partly, contrary to the provisions of
this zoning code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.06) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.007 AREA REDUCTION LIMIT.
   No lot shall be reduced in area as to make its width or the area of any open
space thereof less than the minimum width, area and open space requirements
then prescribed by this zoning code relative to the type of structure
constructed thereon (or the type of structure for the construction of which
thereon any valid building permit is then issued and outstanding) in the zone
in which such lot is then located.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.07) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.008 BUILDING LIMITATIONS.
   Every building erected shall be erected upon a lot or lots, and not more
than a single detached dwelling house shall be erected upon any one lot in any
residence district, nor shall any building be converted to use as a dwelling so
as to create habitation for more than one family upon any one lot in any
residence district, other than as permitted for firehouses.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.08)
§ 150.009 EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any building, structure or use existing at the time of the enactment of this
zoning code may be continued even though such building, structure or use does
not conform with the provisions of this zoning code for the district in which
it is located. Such existing nonconforming use may be hereafter extended
throughout any parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed
for such use at the time of enactment of this zoning code. No building or
premises containing a nonconforming use shall hereafter be extended unless such
extension shall conform with the provisions of this zoning code for the
district in which it is located, except as may hereinafter be provided. No
building, structure or premises shall be vacant for more than 90 days, or with
regard to which a nonconforming use is changed, abandoned or discontinued and
then superseded by a use permitted in the district in which it is located,
shall again be devoted to any use prohibited in such district. No building,
structure, or premises used as a residence in a zone in which such use is
nonconforming, the use of which has been voluntarily discontinued for more than
90 days or with regard to which a nonconforming use is changed or abandoned or
is superseded, shall again be devoted to any use prohibited in such district.
This section is subject to enforcement and penalty as specified in §
150.999.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.09) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.010 RECONSTRUCTION LIMIT FOR NONCONFORMING USE.
   Any nonconforming building or structure, or one or more of a group of
nonconforming buildings or structures related to one industry and under one
ownership, damaged by fire, flood, earthquake or other act of God, may be
reconstructed and used as before such calamity. All reconstruction of any
building or structure and the use of such premises, due to damage by fire,
flood, earthquake, and other act of God must be completed within one year
following such calamity. Nothing in this zoning code shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any part of the building or
structure declared unsafe by the City Manager, or prevent compliance with the
lawful requirements of the City Manager. Whenever a district shall be changed
hereafter, any lawful use then existing therein may be continued, subject to
the same provisions as apply under this zoning code to presently existing
nonconforming uses. This section is subject to enforcement and penalty as
specified in §
150.999.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.10) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.011 HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBERING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose of number control. The purpose is to establish a reasonable
system for the identification of dwelling units and businesses in a manner that
will enable immediate recognition of street addresses from the nearest abutting
public right-of-way or private street. This is essential for the purposes of
locating premises by emergency and safety personnel, day or night, and for the
assistance in the delivery of goods and services to the residents and business
persons of the city.
   (B)   Location and visibility requirements.
      (1)   On each building, dwelling unit or separate business location which
is assigned an identifying number pursuant to this section, the real property
number assigned shall be displayed in a manner that makes it easily visible and
legible to the average person from a location in the public right-of-way which
abuts the front of the building or from the equivalent private drive. These
numbers must be displayed in Arabic numerals. The view must be clear and
unobstructed from the adjoining street, whether it is a public or private
right-of-way. The numbers must be visible both at night and day, and must be
reasonably visible at times of inclement weather.
      (2)   In determining whether the display of the real property numbers
satisfies the requirements of division (A) above, the following criteria shall
be considered:
         (a)   The real property number should be displayed within 50 feet of
the abutting right-of-way;
         (b)   The numbers must be Arabic numerals and be not less than three
inches in height, and reasonably proportional in width. Script numbers alone
are not satisfactory because of the difficulty of immediate recognition;
         (c)   The numbers must distinctly contrast with the background upon
which they are mounted;
         (d)   The numbers should be displayed either on the applicable
building or on a sign or mailbox in the adjacent front yard. Its location
should not be easily susceptible to being blocked by either vegetation, snow,
motor vehicles or other objects that may periodically hinder its view from the
public right-of-way. Numbers which are obscured by the flag on a mailbox or
displayed on only one side of a curbside mailbox are not generally acceptable;
         (e)   If numbers are displayed on only one side of a rural-type mail
box (two side displays are recommended) the numbers should generally be
displayed on the side of the mailbox which faces the on-coming traffic for that
side of the street;
         (f)   The number must be maintained in good repair, including
maintenance of contrasting colors; and
         (g)   Curb painted numbers are not satisfactory by themselves since
they may be obscured by vehicles and snow.
      (3)   On corner lots, the property numbers shall be displayed so that it
is visible from the assigned street address of the property, irrespective of
the location of the driveway.
      (4)   Owner or occupant surnames, given names, business or location names
are not acceptable in lieu of the display of Arabic numerals.
      (5)   Numbers on mailboxes or other displays which do not clearly
designate which specific building is so numbered are not, by themselves,
satisfactory.
   (C)   Assignment of numbers.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Manager or his or her designee to
assign the property numbers required by this chapter. Numbers that are not in
sequence may be permitted to remain assigned to the property if the City
Manager determines that safety personnel are aware of the problem and that
changing the numbers will create significant inconvenience.
      (2)   The following shall be general guidelines for assignment of
property numbers.
         (a)   Principal buildings on streets or avenues shall be numbered
eastwardly or northwardly with the even numbers on the north or east side and
odd numbers on the south or west side of the street. One hundred numbers shall
be allotted to each block of the usual length of blocks, so that the numbers in
consecutive blocks shall commence with consecutive hundreds and hundreds and
one.
         (b)   On all streets running north and south, numbers shall be given
so that the numbers would be in the 7200 series in a block immediately north of
Euclid Avenue.
         (c)   On all streets running east and west, numbers shall be given so
that the numbers would be in the 7700 series in a block immediately east of
Miami Avenue.
   (D)   Sub-property numbers for mobile homes, apartments, office buildings.
      (1)   In addition to the posting and maintenance of property numbers,
sub-numbers using Arabic numerals shall be posted whenever more than one
dwelling unit or business is located on a single premises. It is the
responsibility of the owner, agent or occupant, whichever appropriate of a
mobile home park, apartment or office building, to assign sub-property numbers
to individual lots, apartments or offices, as the case may be, and to procure
and install the proper numbers. Sub-numbers shall be assigned in sequence
beginning at the main entrance of a mobile home park and from first to top
floor in apartment or office buildings.
      (2)   Lot numbers of a mobile home park shall be prominently displayed on
each mobile home, a post, fence, or otherwise clearly visible from the main
drive. Numbers must be located in a manner that clearly indicates which mobile
home it identifies.
      (3)   Individual apartment or office numbers shall be affixed to the
outside of each entrance door, or adjacent thereto.
      (4)   The primary property number assigned to the entire mobile home
park, apartment or office building shall be displayed and meet all other
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   City Manager review.
      (1)   In those cases wherein noncompliance with the requirements of this
chapter is alleged, the matter shall be first reviewed by the City Manager or
his or her designee.
      (2)   If it is determined that a property number is displayed that meets
the purpose of this chapter and satisfies the need to identify the property by
safety personnel, then the City Manager shall issue a variance for that
property.
      (3)   If it is determined not to be in compliance, a citation may be
issued.
   (F)   Penalty. This section is subject to enforcement and penalty as
specified in §
150.999.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.11) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.012 ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Districts. For the purposes of this zoning code, the city is hereby
divided into 16 classes of districts as follows:
Table 150-1
Abbreviation District
Table 150-1
Abbreviation District
   Residential Zoning Districts
R-1          Residence One R-1
R-2          Residence Two R-2
R-3          Residence Three R-3
   Nonresidential Zoning Districts
B-1          Business One - Downtown District - Main Street Madeira B-1
B-2          Business Two - Montgomery Road Enterprise District B-2
B-3          Business Three - Makers, Retailers and Auxiliary District B-3
O-1          Outdoor Recreation One - O-1
   Overlay Zoning Districts
TOD          Transitional Overlay District - TOD
TOD2         Transitional Overlay District #2 - TOD2
TOD3         Transitional Overlay District #3 - TOD3
TROD         Transitional Residential Overlay District - TROD
RSBOD        Residential-Scale Business Overlay District - RSBOD
 
   (B)   Boundaries. The boundaries of these districts are hereby established
as shown on the map, entitled zoning map. Except where such boundaries are
streets or are fixed by exact dimensions shown on such map, they are intended
to follow lot lines as they exist at the time of the enactment of this zoning
code. However, where such a boundary line divides a lot, the entire lot shall
be deemed to be within the least restrictive of the districts between or among
which it would otherwise be divided, provided that no such less restrictive
district shall be extended in such a manner more than 25 feet.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.12)
§ 150.013 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Depths and widths. For the purposes of this zoning code, the depth of
a front or rear yard, on any lot, shall be deemed to be the horizontal distance
between the front or rear lot line, as the case may be, and the part of the
building, on such lot, nearest to such line, and the width of a side yard shall
be the horizontal distance between the relevant side lot line and the part of
the building, on such lot, nearest thereto. The depth of the front yard on a
corner lot shall be not less than the required setback from the front lot line.
The width of the side yard on the side street shall be not less than the
required front yard setback for said side street.
   (B)   Residence districts. The lot requirements listed in Table 150-2 shall
apply to the designated residence districts and to each lot therein, as
respectively applicable thereto. All figures are in feet unless otherwise
stated. All setback measurements shall be to the farthest projections of the
foundation wall of the principal building or dwelling but excluding physical
projections permitted in division (E) of this section. Graphical illustrations
are provided under division (F) of this section.
Table 150-2
 R-1 R-2 R-3
Table 150-2
                    R-1             R-2                  R-3
Minimum lot width   80              75                   50
Minimum lot width   30              30                   25
at right-of-way
Minimum width at    80              70                   42
front yard setback
Minimum side yard   12              9                    6
setback
Minimum total side  24              20                   12
yard setback
Minimum rear yard   40              40                   30
setback
Minimum front yard  50              50                   40
setback
Maximum height of
principal building  35              35                   28
or dwelling
Maximum lot         35%             35%                  28%
coverage
Minimum lot area    20,000          11,700               7,000
sq. ft.
Minimum sq. ft. for
new residential
construction        2,000           2,000                N/A
(includes livable
basements but not
garages)
                    40% (except as  40% (except as       40% (except as
Impervious surface  provided in     provided in division provided in division
coverage limitation division (C)(1) (C)(1) below)        (C)(1) below)
                    below)
 
   (C)   Impervious surface coverage limitations.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE. That portion of a lot that is, unless
otherwise specified, covered by impervious surfaces.
         IMPERVIOUS SURFACES. Surfaces that prevent or substantially impede the
passage, absorption, and/or infiltration of water, including stormwater, into
the soil, including, but are not limited to, buildings, structures, parking
lots, driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, surfaces constructed of asphalt or
concrete, brick or concrete pavers, and compacted gravel surfaces.
      (2)   Calculation. Impervious surface coverage shall be calculated by
measuring, in a horizontal plane, the outer limits of all impervious surfaces
on a lot and comparing the total square footage thereof with the total lot
area. For the purpose of determining impervious surface coverage, areas that do
not meet the definition of impervious surfaces under the definition for
impervious surfaces in division (C)(1) of this section such as certain grass
pavers, uncovered decks, pervious pavement, specially designed graveled areas,
and other innovative surfaces, shall not be included in the calculation. A
survey of the property may be required to verify the impervious surface
coverage of the property.
      (3)   Limitations. Impervious surface coverage limitations apply as
follows.
         (a)   Residence districts. The impervious surface coverage for any lot
in a Residence District (R-1, R-2 or R-3) shall not exceed 50% of the total
gross area of the underlying lot, unless stormwater management, existing
conditions or other techniques to control stormwater and runoff are approved in
writing by the City Manager or ARO, but in no case shall the maximum impervious
surface coverage exceed 60% of the total gross area of the underlying lot.
         (b)   Business and recreation districts. The maximum impervious
surface coverage for any lot in Business Districts (B-1, B-2 or B-3) and
Outdoor Recreation One District (O-1) shall be reviewed and approved in writing
by the City Manager and ARO on a case-by-case basis after considering the
objectives and standards set forth in division (C)(4) of this section, but in
no case shall the maximum impervious surface coverage exceed 60% of the total
gross area of the underlying lot.
         (c)   Transitional overlay districts. The maximum impervious surface
coverage for any lot in Transitional Overlay Districts TOD, TOD2 or TOD3 shall
be reviewed and approved in writing by the City Manager or ARO on a case-by-
case basis after considering the objectives and standards set forth in division
(C)(4) of this section.
      (4)   Objectives and standards for impervious surface coverage
limitations. In establishing maximum impervious surface limitations referenced
above, the following objectives and standards shall be considered, weighed and
applied by the City Manager or ARO. Impervious surface coverage on the
underlying lot should:
         (a)   Minimize visual impacts from development, including, but not
limited to, screening from adjacent properties and protecting scenic views;
         (b)   Preserve trees or vegetation to the extent practicable given the
proposed use;
         (c)   Help control and prevent erosion, including, but not limited to,
protecting steep slopes and natural drainage channels; and
         (d)   Preserve and protect stream corridors, natural waterways and the
lots ecological integrity.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Aerobic household sewage disposal systems are
only permitted in R-1.
   (E)   Physical elements. The physical elements of a principal building or
dwelling, or elements affixed to a principal building or dwelling, may project
into the front, side or rear yard setback as listed in Table 150-3. All figures
are in feet, unless otherwise stated. All measurements shall be to the farthest
projection of the applicable element. Elements not listed below shall not be
permitted to project into any front, side or rear yard setback.
Table 150-3
Permitted Projections into Setbacks
Physical Element Maximum Depth Maximum Width Maximum Total Coverage (per side)
Table 150-3
Permitted Projections into Setbacks
Physical Element          Maximum Depth Maximum Width Maximum Total Coverage
                                                      (per side)
Eaves, cornices and       2             N/A           N/A
gutters
Chimneys, flues,
cantilevered walls and    2             6             25%
bow/bay windows, window
wells
Landings, stoops and      4             N/A           N/A
stairs *
Mechanical equipment (A/
C units, generators, heat 10            N/A           N/A
pumps and the like) **
Sills and belt courses    6 inches      N/A           N/A
*   Landings and stoops are also subject to §
150.053
**   Mechanical equipment shall only be permitted to project into the rear
yard setback
 
   (F)   Exhibits.
      (1)   Exhibit 1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4276.png]
 
      (2)    Exhibit 2 - Example Interior Lot Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4278.png]
 
      (3)    Exhibit 3 - Example Corner Lot Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4280.png]
 
      (4)   Exhibit 4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4332.png]
 
      (5)   Exhibit 5 - Example Setback Plan - District B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4284.png]
 
      (6)     Exhibit 6 - Example Setback Plan - Distric t A/A2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4286.png]
 
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.13 )
ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES AND PROCEDURE
§ 150.025 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)    Permit. No construction, alteration or addition shall be performed
unless a permit has been issued by the City Manager.
   (B)     Conform with zoning code. No permit for construction, alteration or
addition shall be issued by the City Manager unless the plans, specifications
and intended use fully conform to the provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.14) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.026 CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Authorization for conditional uses. The Planning Commission may allow
as conditional uses only those uses classified as conditional uses in this
zoning code.
   (B)   Hearings on conditional use permit. The Planning Commission shall hold
a hearing on an application for conditional use within 45 days after the
application has been filed unless otherwise agreed by the applicant. The
Planning Commission shall make a reasonable effort to substantially comply with
the following standards for notice of such hearing. At least ten days before
such hearing, public notice of such hearing shall be provided on the city’s
website or published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. The property which is the subject of the proposed conditional use shall
be posted with a sign indicating that such application has been filed. Notices
shall contain the date, time and place of the hearing and a brief description
of the relief sought. Written notice shall be given at least ten days before
the hearing to owners of property within 400 feet of the perimeter of the
parcel or parcels of land in the application. The Planning Commission may give
such additional notice as may be deemed appropriate. Any party in interest may
appear and be heard at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney. However,
any failure to send, post or receive any of the notices set forth herein shall
not be basis for denying the application for a conditional use, nor shall it be
a basis for reversing or voiding a decision of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Conditions and restrictions. In granting a conditional use, the
Planning Commission may impose such conditions, safeguards and restrictions
upon the premises benefitted by the conditional use as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth herein and to reduce or minimize any
potentially injurious effect of such conditional uses upon other property in
the neighborhood and to carry out the general purpose and intent of this zoning
code.
   (D)   Decision and records. The Planning Commission shall render a written
decision on an application for conditional use without unreasonable delay after
the close of the hearing, and in all cases within 45 days from the close of the
hearing. The decision of the Planning Commission shall contain specific
findings of fact and shall clearly set forth any such conditions, safeguards or
restrictions imposed. The Planning Commission shall maintain complete records
of all actions of the Planning Commission with respect to applications for
conditional uses.
   (E)   Conditional uses. No use of a building, structure or land that is
designated as a conditional use shall hereafter be changed to another
conditional use until a new conditional use permit has been secured in
accordance with these procedures. Any use which is a permitted use when
established but changed to a conditional use by amendments to this zoning code
shall be classified as a conditional use and shall have all the rights and
limitations of a conditional use. No expansions of buildings, new buildings or
additional parking areas shall be constructed on any existing conditional use
without also submitting a plan for approval that demonstrates reasonable
efforts to bring existing parking areas, access ways, buffer/landscaping areas,
and buildings into conformity with the criteria and guidelines stated herein.
No existing conditional use shall be altered, modified or enlarged unless a new
conditional use permit has been secured in accordance with the procedures set
forth herein. A conditional use which is voluntarily discontinued for a period
of 180 days or more shall not be reestablished unless a new conditional use
permit has been secured in accordance with the provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.15)
§ 150.027 DIMENSIONAL VARIANCE.
   (A)   General. The purpose of this section is to establish the standards of
review to be used by the Board of Zoning Appeals in evaluating any request for
a dimensional variance from the provisions of this zoning code. As used herein,
a dimensional or area variance shall not include variances that deviate from
the activities regulated within the various zoning districts. Dimensional or
area variances shall be considered those variances from a zoning regulation
that establish minimum or maximum areas, heights, distances, separation, volume
or any other measurement which is expressed in terms of a geometric
measurement.
   (B)   Application. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider an application
for a variance only after a properly completed application and fees have been
submitted to the city administration not less than 28 days prior to the meeting
of the Board of Zoning Appeals at which the variance is to be considered. The
specific form shall include all information determined by Board of Zoning
Appeals and the City Manager to be necessary and appropriate for a full and
fair consideration of the application for a variance. The information necessary
for an application shall include at least the following, unless waived by the
City Manager for the reason that it is not essential to the consideration of
the variance request and is unduly expensive or burdensome for the applicant to
prepare:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of owner(s) of property;
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of applicant and relationship to
owner (i.e., same, builder, purchaser and the like);
      (3)   If applicant and owner are not the same, authorization of the owner
for the applicant to request the variance;
      (4)   Street address of subject parcel;
      (5)   Designate zoning district of the subject property and adjoining
property;
      (6)   Signatures of owner and applicant;
      (7)   Plat of property depicting existing structures and all proposed
structures on the subject property as well as location of structures on
adjoining property. Such plat should indicate all relevant distances as well as
identify any existing deviations from the current zoning code, whether those
deviations are nonconforming uses, zoning code violations, or dimensional
variances;
      (8)   If appropriate, the existing topography and any changes proposed to
be made;
      (9)   A determination or evaluation of whether a proposed variance would
result in any change of surface water drainage in either direction or volume;
      (10)   Drawing of the proposed improvement, including accurate renderings
of the proposed final improvement; and
      (11)   Such additional information as may be determined by the City
Manager to be helpful in the evaluation and processing of the application.
   (C)   Modification. Where the strict application of any provision of this
zoning code establishing minimum or maximum dimensional requirements would
cause practical difficulties upon the owner of specific property, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall have the power, upon application by or on behalf of such
owner and after public hearing, notice of which has been given as described in
Charter Art. VII, § 3, to modify such provision or to interpret such meaning.
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, no such modification or
interpretation shall be made that is not in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this zoning code and provided the Board of Zoning Appeals
considers each of the following factors, in addition to any other factors
deemed appropriate under the circumstances, before deciding whether to grant a
variance.
      (1)   Will the property in question yield a reasonable return or can
there be any beneficial use of the property without the variance?
      (2)   Is the variance necessary to preserve a substantial property right
(the reasonable enjoyment and use of the property) which is already possessed
by the owners of other properties in the same area?
      (3)   Are there exceptional or extraordinary conditions which apply to
the subject property that do not apply generally to other properties in the
same area?
      (4)   Would the essential character of the neighborhood be substantially
altered or would adjoining properties suffer a substantial detriment as a
result of the variance?
      (5)   Would the variance adversely affect the delivery of government
services (e.g., water, sewer, garbage, safety)?
      (6)   Were the applicable zoning restrictions in place when the property
was purchased or acquired by the applicant? Did the applicant have a reasonable
means of determining what zoning restrictions were in effect at the time the
property was acquired?
      (7)   Can the property owner’s predicament feasibly be obviated through
some method other than a variance (such as a zoning change or redesign of the
proposed plan)?
      (8)   Can the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement be observed
and substantial justice done if the variance is granted?
   (D)   Granting of variance. In accordance with the Charter, no variance
shall be granted unless a majority of the members appointed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals vote affirmatively to grant the variance.
   (E)   Variance conditions. The Board of Zoning Appeals may impose conditions
when granting a variance, but such conditions must have a substantial
relationship (essential nexus) to a public purpose or regulations specifically
set forth in the zoning code. In establishing such a condition, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall set forth in writing the condition and describe the
relationship between the variance being granted and the condition being
imposed.
   (F)   Architectural Review Office. Variance applications are subject to §
150.030.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.16)
§ 150.028 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Appointment. See Charter
Art. VII, § l.
   (B)   Powers and duties. See Charter
Art. VII, § 2.
   (C)   Action of Council necessary. See Charter
Art. VII, § 3.
   (D)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven voting
members.
   (E)   Terms of Council appointee. One Council member appointed to the
Planning Commission shall serve until his or her Council term expires.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.17)
§ 150.029 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Appointment. See Charter
 Art. XVII, § 1.
   (B)   Meetings. See Charter
Art. XVII, § 2.
   (C)   Powers and duties. See Charter
Art. XVII, § 3.
   (D)   Variances. See Charter
Art. XVII, § 4.
   (E)   Membership. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five voting
members.
   (F)   Direct review of variances. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the
authority to review applications for variance, and to grant relief from strict
application of the zoning code.
      (1)   Scope of review. Pursuant to this section, an applicant may apply
directly to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a variance under the following
sections:
         (a)   Dimensional variance, §
150.027;
         (b)   Residence district uses, §
150.045;
         (c)   Home offices in residential districts, §
150.047;
         (d)   Conversion of existing accessory buildings, §
150.050;
         (e)   Panhandle lots, §
150.052;
         (f)   Business and enterprise districts, §§
150.070 through
150.076 and
150.090 through
150.111;
         (g)   Transitional Overlay District #2, §
150.126;
         (h)   Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations, §§
150.140 through
150.164;
         (i)   Cellular or wireless communication systems, §
150.178;
         (j)   Subdivision Regulations,
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances;
         (k)   Variances and appeals process for Residential Building Code, §
152.12;
         (l)   Signs,
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances;
         (m)   Flood Hazard Reduction,
Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances; and
         (n)   Any other section of the city’s zoning code not referenced above
and which permits applications for variance.
      (2)   Review process.
         (a)   Public hearing. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public
hearing, evaluating the application for variance based upon the standards of
review established under state law, within 60 days of receiving applicant’s
variance application.
         (b)   Burden of proof. Pursuant to this section, an applicant seeking
a variance must demonstrate that a practical difficult exists in conforming to
the applicable zoning code provision.
         (c)   Standard of review. In reviewing an application for variance
under this section, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall weigh the Duncan Factors:
            1.   Will the property yield a reasonable return or can there be a
beneficial use of the property without the variance?
            2.   Is the variance substantial?
            3.   Will the essential character of the neighborhood be
substantially altered or will adjoining properties suffer a substantial
detriment if the variance is granted?
            4.   Will the variance adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services?
            5.   Did the property owner purchase the property with knowledge of
the zoning restrictions?
            6.   Can the problem be resolved by some manner other than the
granting of the variance?
            7.   Will the variance preserve the “spirit and intent” of the
zoning resolution and will “substantial justice” be done by granting the
variance?
         (d)   Decision. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written
decision to the applicant approving, denying or conditionally approving an
application for variance within 30 days of the public hearing.
   (G)   Appellate review. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority
to hear appeals of decision rendered by the Planning Commission, City Manager
and/or ARO while enforcing the provisions of this zoning code.
      (1)   Scope of review. Pursuant to this section, if the Planning
Commission, City Manager or ARO denies requested relief to an applicant, such
applicant may appeal the decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board of
Zoning Appeals shall have jurisdiction to hear appeals brought under the
following sections:
         (a)   Architectural Review Office, §
150.030;
         (b)   Residence zone fencing, §
150.049;
         (c)   Parking, §
150.051;
         (d)   Panhandle lots, §
150.052;
         (e)   Business and enterprise districts, §§
150.070 through
150.076 and
150.090 through
150.111;
         (f)   Transitional Overlay District, §
150.125;
         (g)   Transitional Overlay District #2, §
150.126;
         (h)   Transitional Overlay District #3, §
150.127;
         (i)   Transitional Residential Overlay District, §
150.128;
         (j)   Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations, §§
150.140 through
150.164;
         (k)   Subdivision Regulations,
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances;
         (l)   Building Code and Excavation,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances;
         (m)   Property Maintenance Code,
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances;
         (n)   Signs,
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances;
         (o)   Location of Sexually Oriented Businesses Regulated,
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances;
         (p)   Flood Hazard Reduction,
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances; and
         (q)   Any other section of the city’s zoning code not referenced above
and which permits the appeal of a decision rendered by the Planning Commission,
City Manager or ARO.
      (2)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing a decision of the
Planning Commission, City Manager or ARO must provide notice of his or her
intent to appeal such decision to the Planning Commission, City Manager or ARO,
and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the provision of written
notification of denial to the applicant.
      (3)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public
hearing, evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review applied by
the Planning Commission, City Manager or ARO to the initial application, within
60 days of receiving applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.18)
§ 150.030 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW OFFICE.
   (A)   Establishment. There is established an Architectural Review Office
(ARO) consisting of one person to be appointed by the City Manager with the
approval of Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Architectural Review Office shall have the
following powers and duties.
      (1)   The ARO shall review all proposed exterior construction and
alteration plans in the B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business Districts, any parcels
granted a variance for business use in any nonconforming areas utilized for
business or manufacturing uses, subdivision development and double letter
zoning districts now in effect or hereinafter created. No building permit will
be granted by the City Manager without the written approval of the ARO after
such review. The ARO shall also review all proposed signs or sign changes in
all zoning districts in the city.
      (2)   The ARO shall assist and advise the Planning Commission on the
design, amenities, quality, relationships to natural features, existing
buildings and all other aspects of a site development plan being considered by
the Planning Commission which relate to the appearance of an entire project,
and all of its parts and surroundings. All standards, regulations and criteria
contained in the ordinances of the city shall be considered by the ARO in its
review.
   (C)   Terms and qualifications. The Architectural Review Officer shall be
appointed for a term of two years and shall be a registered architect skilled
in the field of aesthetics and design.
   (D)   Appeal. A building permit denied based upon input from the
Architectural Review Office may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals for
an administrative hearing. The decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
final.
   (E)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   The person appointed to the Architectural Review Office shall not
participate in the review of, or give advice upon, any work in which a partner
or professional associate or associates has any direct or indirect interest.
      (2)   In the event that such a conflict of interest may arise, or the ARO
is unable to participate in the review, a temporary ARO shall be appointed for
such work in the same manner as the ARO is appointed.
   (F)   Compensation.
      (1)   Compensation shall be paid the Architectural Review Officer as is
established by the City Manager for professional services.
      (2)   With the submission of each application the City Manager shall
require a deposit to be made to cover a review expense equal to at least 25% of
the fee charged for the applicable building permit.
   (G)   Review procedures of applications.
      (1)   A preliminary review may be scheduled with the City Manager and the
Architectural Review Office to establish the intent and scope of the proposed
application and to review the proposal as evidenced schematically by sketch
plans. The City Manager and ARO may furnish the applicant written comments
regarding such conference including appropriate recommendations to inform and
assist prior to the preparation of the formal plan.
      (2)   After receipt of a complete submission of an application for a
building permit for construction or alteration in the districts designated in
division (B) of this section, the City Manager shall refer such submission to
the ARO.
      (3)   Within 30 days following receipt of such submission, the ARO shall
advise the City Manager in writing of the approval or disapproval. If
disapproved, such writing shall set forth the findings as to the basis for the
determination. Such writing shall be open to public inspection.
   (H)   Standards and criteria.
      (1)   An application or a building permit shall be reviewed by the
Architectural Review Officer who shall consider the following:
         (a)   Materials. Materials shall be appropriate for the use of
building, for weathering, and for relationship to other materials including
those used on buildings in surrounding areas;
         (b)   Colors and textures. Colors and textures shall be appropriate
for the size and scale of the building, for weathering, and for relationship to
the site and surrounding buildings;
         (c)   Architectural details and ornaments. Architectural details and
ornaments shall be meaningful to the overall design and appropriate for the
size and scale of the building and for weathering;
         (d)   Mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment shall be considered
as it affects rooftop appearance, sidewall openings, sound levels, smoke, and
other nuisance aspects. Also, mechanical equipment shall be considered as it
relates to overhead wires, gas and electric meter stations, and any other
visible appurtenances;
         (e)   Approaches, drives and parking areas. Approaches, drives, and
parking areas shall be considered as they affect the appearance from the street
and from the site as well. The relationship of paving to the building shall be
appropriate considering factors such as safety, drainage and landscaping;
         (f)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be appropriate for the size and
use of the area, and for its relationship to building, street, parking area,
walks, buildings and surrounding areas. An adequate plan for the maintenance of
such landscaping shall be submitted;
         (g)   Lighting. Lighting shall be considered for the appropriateness
of nighttime illumination of the grounds, drives, walks, parking areas, the
building, and its effect upon surrounding areas;
         (h)   Signs. Signs shall be considered for appropriateness of size,
scale, shape, color, content, text and illumination in relation to building
site;
         (i)   Utilities. Adequate utilities, parking, access roads, drainage,
landscape planting and other essential facilities and amenities will be
provided;
         (j)   Ingress and egress. Adequate measures will be taken to provide
ingress and egress designed so as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets; and
         (k)   Service. All service, loading and shipping areas of commercial
and industrial buildings shall be screened by fences or walls and located so as
not to create pedestrian or traffic congestion.
      (2)   The application shall otherwise comply with the standards and
criteria of all appropriate and applicable ordinances of the city.
   (I)   Variances. In the event a zoning variance is required by an applicant
to comply with the requirements established by the Architectural Review Office,
the ARO may recommend to the Board of Zoning Appeals as to the nature and
extent of said zoning variance request. The Board of Zoning Appeals may
consider the recommendation as constituting a hardship sufficient to comply
with the City Charter.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.19)
§ 150.031 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Schedule. There is hereby established as set forth below a schedule of
fees for land usage applications and appeals. This schedule shall be applicable
to those applications and appeals indicated herein. If there is a conflict
between the fee schedule set forth in this chapter and a fee established
elsewhere, the fee set forth in this chapter shall be used. However, if a fee
is established elsewhere and no fee is set forth in this chapter, then that fee
shall be required to be paid.
   (B)   City Manager. If there is a question concerning which fee is
applicable, the City Manager shall review the matter and make a determination
as to the applicable fee. The City Manager’s decision shall be final.
   (C)   Payment of fees.
      (1)   No application or appeal shall be considered filed until the proper
payment of fees has been received.
      (2)   If any check is returned unpaid for any reason the application or
appeal shall be considered withdrawn and the person filing the application or
appeal shall be notified without delay.
      (3)   No further consideration shall be given to the application or
appeal unless payment is submitted in a form satisfactory to the City Manager,
who may require that the payment be made in cash.
   (D)   Fees for zoning applications and appeals. The fees for certain
applications and appeals pertaining to zoning matters are as follows.
      (1)   Variance relating to property used for residential purposes. Any
application or appeal for variance relating to property used for residential
purposes which is submitted pursuant to §
150.027 of the zoning code shall be the following:
         (a)   Variance for improvements on any buildings or structures. A flat
fee of $50 per application, plus a flat fee of $1.50 per each $1,000 of
valuation of the improvement; and
         (b)   Variance for lot split and panhandle lots. A flat fee of $100
per application.
      (2)   Variance relating to property used for commercial purposes. Any
application or appeal for variance relating to property used for commercial
purposes which is submitted pursuant to §
150.027 of the zoning code shall be a flat fee of $150 per application, plus a
flat fee of $1.50 per each $1,000 of valuation of the improvement.
      (3)   Lot splits. All applications for lot splits that consist of less
than five lots (minor subdivisions) shall be charged a flat fee of $50 per
application and $50 per lot in excess of two lots.
   (E)   Sign variances. All applications or appeals for a variance from the
sign code shall be $50 per application.
   (F)   Conditional use hearings. Any application (which may or may not
include an appeal) for conditional use hearings relating to property used for
purposes which is submitted pursuant to §
150.013 shall be a flat fee of $150 per application, plus a flat fee of $1.50
per each $1,000 of valuation of the improvement.
   (G)   Building Code appeals. Any application for a Building Code appeal
which is submitted pursuant to Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, Building
Code and Excavation, shall be a flat fee of $50 per application.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.20)
RESIDENCE AND RECREATIONAL DISTRICTS
§ 150.045 RESIDENCE DISTRICT USES (R-1, R-2, R-3).
   (A)   Purpose. The following are the purpose statements for each of the
established residence districts in the city.
      (1)   Residence One R-1 District. It is the primary purpose of the
Residence One R-1 District to establish and maintain residential neighborhoods
consisting of high quality single-family detached homes with relatively low
population and building density while preserving the undeveloped lands within
the district for similar types of residential uses.
      (2)   Residence Two R-2 District. It is the primary purpose of the
Residence Two R-2 District to establish and maintain residential neighborhoods
consisting of high quality single-family detached homes with relatively
moderate population and building density while preserving the undeveloped lands
within the district for similar types of residential uses.
      (3)   Residence Three R-3 District. It is the primary purpose of the
Residence Three R-3 District to establish and maintain residential
neighborhoods consisting of high quality single-family detached homes with
higher population and building density while preserving the undeveloped lands
within the district for similar types of residential uses.
   (B)   Primary permitted use. The primary permitted uses of land in a
residence district are for one single-family residential dwelling unit per lot,
or for vacant unimproved land.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses for residence
districts are authorized pursuant to §
150.046.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses for residence districts are the
conditional uses authorized by §
150.048, upon application and approval by the Planning Commission set forth
therein pursuant to the standards and conditions.
   (E)   Uses. Uses permitted within the residence districts are specified in
Table 150-4. In any residence district, no building, structure or premises
shall be used, and no building or structure shall be erected that is intended
or designed to be used, in whole or in part, except for one of the uses
specified in
Table 150-4, unless otherwise provided for in this zoning code.
      (1)   Permitted uses. A “P” in a cell in
Table 150-4 indicates that a use is permitted by right in the respective
residence district. Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable
provisions of this zoning code.
      (2)   Permitted uses with standards.
         (a)   A “PS” in a cell in
Table 150-4 indicates that a use is permitted by right in the respective
residence district if such use satisfies additional standards set forth in the
referenced section of the zoning code.
         (b)   Permitted uses with standards are subject to all other
applicable provisions of this zoning code.
      (3)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   1.   Other than permitted uses, certain other types of uses may
be integrated into residence districts that will be compatible with the primary
single-family use only if the impact of certain activities and improvements are
specifically mitigated by regulations and conditions.
            2.   The activities and improvements of institutional uses which
may be incompatible with single-family dwelling use include traffic, ingress
and egress, large parking surfaces, noise, lights, large buildings, hours of
usage, and other activities that may be inconsistent and have a negative impact
upon the primary permitted use of single-family dwellings.
            3.   Failure to regulate these activities and improvements may
result in the reduction of the desirability of single-family dwellings and
corresponding reduction in property values.
            4.   The conditional uses permitted in residence districts are
those uses which traditionally have complemented and enhanced the desirability
of a residential community provided the intensity of the use of the facilities
is not permitted to become so disproportionate as to cause a reduction in the
desirability and value of single-family dwellings within the vicinity.
         (b)   The conditional uses permitted in residence districts are
limited to those set forth in
Table 150-4.
         (c)   A “C” in a cell in
Table 150-4 indicates that a use may be permitted if approved through a
conditional use permit, subject to the conditions under §
150.026. Conditional uses are subject to use-specific standards under §
150.026. Conditional uses are subject to all other applicable provisions of
this zoning code.
      (4)   Prohibited use. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary
under this zoning code, no premises, including any dwelling, building,
structure, appurtenances or room thereon, in a residence district shall be used
for short-term rental.
   (F)   Table of residence district permitted uses.
   Table 150-4 Residence Districts Permitted Uses
   P = Permitted      PS = Permitted with Standards      C = Conditional
Use      X = Prohibited
Use  R-1 R-2 R-3 Additional Requirements
Type
   Table 150-4 Residence Districts Permitted Uses
   P = Permitted      PS = Permitted with Standards      C = Conditional Use      X =
Prohibited
Use Type                                                              R- R- R- Additional
                                                                      1  2  3  Requirements
Dwelling, single-family                                               P  P  P
Accessory buildings and structures                                    PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Gardening                                                             PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
                                                                               §§
Home offices                                                          PS PS PS 150.046;
                                                                               150.047
In-law suites                                                         PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Parking facilities                                                    PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Pets                                                                  PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Recreational vehicles                                                 PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Signs                                                                 PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Swimming pools                                                        PS PS PS §
                                                                               150.046
Adult family homes and adult group homes licensed pursuant to R.C. §          §§
3722.02                                                               C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
City parks and playgrounds                                            C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
Educational institutions, but not trade schools                       C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
Family homes and group homes licensed pursuant to R.C. § 5123.19     C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
Firehouses for serving the city, including living quarters for                 §§
necessary firefighting personnel                                      C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
Foster homes or family foster homes as defined in R.C. § 2159.011(B) C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
Government buildings and utilities                                    C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
Libraries open to the public                                          C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
                                                                               §§
Places of worship                                                     C  C  C  150.026;
                                                                               150.048
Short-term rental                                                     X  X  X
 
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.22)
§ 150.046 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures customarily incidental
to the use of a lot for single-family dwelling purposes may be established,
erected or constructed, provided that such accessory uses shall not involve the
conduct of any business, trade, or industry or any private way or walk giving
access to such activity, or any billboard, sign or poster other than authorized
herein.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses in residence districts include the following.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and structures. Accessory buildings and
structures customarily incidental to any use permitted in the residence
district and located on the same lot with the main use to which they are
accessory shall be permitted provided that they comply with the following.
         (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations under this division is
to control the size and number of accessory buildings or structures located on
lots in residence districts, and to eliminate conditions which may be
detrimental to the residential character and property values of real estate
located in such residence districts.
         (b)   Limits and regulations.
            1.   Accessory buildings and structures shall be related,
subordinate, and customarily incidental to the use of the principal building or
structure located on the same lot. They shall have the same ownership as the
principal building or structure located on the same lot and shall only service
the needs of the occupants of the principal building or structure located on
the same lot.
            2.   No accessory buildings, uses or structures in a residence
district shall include any business activity unless specifically permitted and
regulated by express provision of the zoning code. Accessory buildings and
structures are subject to the requirements and limitations provided in the
following Table 150-5 and all other provisions of the zoning code:
 
Table 150-5
Accessory Buildings and Structures in Residence Districts
                      Minimum
Zoning   Permitted    Distance From Maximum Height Maximum Square Additional
District Location     Side and Rear from Grade     Footage*       Requirements
                      Lot Lines
R-1      Side or rear 4 feet        20 feet        800 sq. ft.    §
         yard                                                     150.013
R-2      Side or rear 4 feet        20 feet        600 sq. ft.    §
         yard                                                     150.013
R-3      Side or rear 4 feet        15 feet        160 sq. ft.    §
         yard                                                     150.013
* The combined square footage for all accessory buildings and accessory
structures located on the same lot shall not exceed the maximum square footage
shown in Table 150-5
   
         (c)   Structures for children’s play or which contain pets or animals.
Playsets, treehouses, dog houses/runs, chicken coops or other structures used
for play or to contain pets or animals shall not be located in a front yard,
and must conform to setback requirements of the relevant district.
         (d)   Permit process. No person shall construct, expand or reconstruct
any accessory building or structure regulated by this zoning code without first
obtaining a building permit from the City Manager certifying compliance with
these provisions. If the City Manager determines that the proposed structure
does not comply with the zoning code, then the applicant may appeal the
decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Gardening. Gardening, hobby greenhouses, the raising of vegetables
or fruits exclusively for the use or personal enjoyment of residents of the
premises and not for commercial purposes shall be permitted, subject to this
zoning code.
      (3)   Home offices. Home offices are subject to §
150.047.
      (4)   Parking facilities. Garages, carports or other parking spaces for
the exclusive use of residents of the premises and their guests, subject to
this zoning code.
      (5)   Pets. The keeping of household pets exclusively for the use or
personal enjoyment of residents of the premises and not for commercial purposes
shall be permitted, subject to this zoning code.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Motor homes, automobile trailers, house
trailers, motorcycle trailers, boat trailers, boats, camping trailers, campers
and similar units, whether truck- or chassis-mounted or unmounted, shall be
permitted in the side and rear yards in residence districts and shall be
permitted in front yards in residence districts for no more than 24 continuous
hours and no more than a total of 96 hours in any consecutive 30-day period,
but may not be occupied for residence, business, demonstration or any other
purposes.
      (7)   Signs. All signs in a residence district are subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 154.
      (8)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the
residents and their guests, subject to this zoning code and the Building Code.
      (9)   In-law suites.
         (a)   Definition. In-law suites, as defined in §
150.001, subject to requirements under division (B)(9)(b) of this section.
         (b)   Requirements for in-law suites. In order for an in-law suite to
qualify as a permitted accessory use, the in-law suite must satisfy the
following requirements.
            1.   The dwelling that contains the in-law suite must maintain a
single- family residential appearance which blends with the principal structure
and the neighborhood, and the in-law suite may not exceed more than 1,000
square feet in area.
            2.   The in-law suite shall be located within the buildable area of
the lot upon which the dwelling is located, and shall not be detached from the
dwelling, be located in a detached garage or within another accessory structure
of the dwelling.
            3.   An in-law suite shall only be permitted on properties that
meet minimum lot frontage and minimum lot size requirements in the residence
district in which the dwelling is located. The in-law suite shall be occupied
in a manner consistent with single-family dwellings in residence districts.
            4.   An in-law suite is being occupied in a manner consistent with
a single-family dwellings in residence districts if all of the following
factors are present:
               a.   Unrestricted access to the entire dwelling is provided to
all occupants;
               b.   Interior passages connect the in-law suite to the primary
residence;
               c.   The entire dwelling has no more than one meter and one
connection for water, electricity, gas, and other household utilities,
respectively;
               d.   The in-law suite does not have a separate mailbox or
mailing address from the primary residence;
               e.   The in-law suite shall not be used for transient
accommodations or short-term rentals; and
               f.   No leasehold interest has been or will be granted in the
in-law suite.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.23)
§ 150.047 HOME OFFICES IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Home offices. The following standards for home offices in residence
districts are intended to provide reasonable opportunities for home offices
within dwellings in residence districts, while avoiding changes to the
residential character of a dwelling and deleterious effects on the enjoyment of
other residential dwellings in the surrounding residence district. In order to
be permitted under this code, a home office must satisfy all of the
requirements set forth in division (B) of this section and must not engage in
any activities set forth in division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Requirements. A home office shall not be permitted under this code
unless it satisfies all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Character. The residential character of the exterior of the
property shall not be changed, nor shall any structural alterations or
construction features be made or used which are not customary in dwellings, and
no display or sign pertaining to such use shall be visible from any street;
      (2)   Residents and nonresidents. Members of the immediate family
residing within the residence and one nonresident may work, practice or assist
in such office(s) or occupation(s), but, in no case may more than two residents
of the actual home where the home office is occurring (whether or not one is
the employee of the other) work, practice or assist in the office or
occupation;
      (3)   Vehicles. The number of vehicles attracted to the premises, or to a
street in the immediate vicinity of the premises, as a result of the home
office(s), shall not exceed two at any one time, including vehicles of a
nonresident employee and excluding vehicles of residents, but excluding
delivery vehicles temporarily stopped for purposes of pick-up or delivery;
      (4)   Visitors and entrance. Not more than four persons, excluding
residents of the dwelling, may enter such dwelling as patrons, clients,
visitors or otherwise attracted to the premises as a result of the home office
(s) in a single day, and not more than 20 such persons in a single week. Any
entrance to any office or area of any home office(s) shall be from within the
dwelling;
      (5)   Merchandise. No merchandise, product or commodity may be sold on
the premises and no bulk storage of merchandise, products, commodities or
equipment is permitted on the premises;
      (6)   Devices. Any device equipping the office or occupation shall be
only of the type normally used or found in a single-family dwelling, and no
mechanical equipment shall be used which creates any dust, noise, odor, light,
glare, vibration or electrical disturbance beyond the lot; and
      (7)   Multiple home offices. Multiple home offices in the same dwelling
are permitted, provided that the aggregate impact or effect complies with this
section.
   (C)   Prohibited. Home offices are prohibited from being used for the
following activities: gym, fitness, or workout activities; a barber or beauty
shop; shoe repair; automotive repair; motorcycle repair; lawnmower repair;
heavy equipment repair; commercial breeding, raising or selling of animals; any
activities that do not satisfy the requirements of this section; and any other
activities as determined by the Planning Commission from time to time.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.24)
§ 150.048 CONDITIONAL USES IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   The Planning Commission shall not grant a conditional use permit for a
conditional use in a residence district unless it shall, in each specific case,
make specific findings of fact directly, based on the particular evidence
presented to it, that support the conclusions that:
   (A)   Outdoor lighting shall be reflected away from adjacent residential
property and installed at the lowest height that is consistent with safety and
security intended to be provided by such lighting;
   (B)   The minimum lot size shall be three acres, unless the Planning
Commission specifically determines that a smaller sized parcel is suitable for
the proposed use, that the smaller size will not cause an unreasonable
intrusion of institutional activity into property used for residential uses in
the vicinity, and is in harmony with the other conditions set forth in this
section regulating conditional uses;
   (C)   No parking areas or above ground structures shall be closer than 25
feet to adjacent residential areas;
   (D)   Screening and buffering along the common boundary or portion thereof
shall be provided in accordance with the following regulations and shall be
approved as part of the development plan required by this section.
      (1)   Intent. It is not intended that such a landscaped buffered area be
required to screen out all activity or buildings on the subject property. The
Planning Commission may authorize a reduction in the size of the buffer area if
it is recommended by the ARO and the Planning Commission determines such
reduction will not be inconsistent with the purpose of this section.
      (2)   When required. Screening and buffering shall be required for
parking lots, access drives or loading and service areas when adjacent to a
residential use or district.
      (3)   Width of buffer yard. Each required buffer yard shall have a
minimum width of 25 feet.
      (4)   Type of screening. A brick, stone or decorative masonry wall of
acceptable design along the common boundary, or portion thereof, shall be
required. The spaces between the wall and the lot line of the adjoining
premises in any residence district shall be landscaped with grass, hardy
shrubs, or evergreen ground cover and maintained in good condition. In lieu of
a wall, a solid, continuous, visual screen along the common boundary or portion
thereof with one or more of the items listed below can be substituted, only
when it is determined by the Planning Commission that such screening can be
equally as effective as the solid wall:
         (a)   Existing natural vegetation; or
         (b)   New screening materials consisting of one or a combination of
the following:
            1.   A landscaped mound or berm at least three feet in height, and
planted with an evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less
than six feet in height measured from the natural grade;
            2.   A dense vegetative planting incorporating trees and/or shrubs
of a variety which shall be equally effective in winter and summer; or
            3.   A solid fence.
      (5)   Location. The location of the wall, fence, or vegetation shall be
placed within the buffer yard to maximize the screening effect as determined by
the ARO.
      (6)   Height of screening. The height of the screening, measured from the
natural grade, shall not be less than six feet in height and shall be
maintained in good condition without any advertising thereon. When the
screening or a portion thereof is intended to be achieved with vegetation, the
required height shall be a minimum of 42 inches at planting, with a height of
six feet achieved no later than 24 months after the initial installation.
Whenever the required screening is located along the common side lot line of
the area extending from the front of the building line of the residential use
to the street, the required screening shall not exceed a height of four feet.
   (E)   The location of curb cuts for the ingress and egress of motor vehicles
shall be approved by the City Engineer and the City Manager. The location and
width of such access points shall consider the following. Potential high
traffic areas shall be located away from adjacent residential property in order
to minimize the intrusion of motor vehicle noise, lights and high traffic
volume into the adjacent residential areas;
   (F)   All buildings shall maintain a front, rear and side yard setback of
not less than 50 feet. Buildings in excess of 35 feet in height shall be
required to be set back one additional foot for every foot that the building
height is in excess of 35 feet. The maximum height of any building shall be 50
feet, including steeples, other appurtenances, or any other architectural
features. The height of any building shall also be reviewed and commented on by
the Fire Department;
   (G)   Interior landscaping of parking lots shall be provided in accordance
with the following requirements:
      (1)   When any parking area is designed to accommodate 20 or more
vehicles, a minimum of 5% of that portion of the parking lot shall be planted
as landscaped areas, developed, and reasonably distributed throughout such
portion so as to provide visual and climatic relief from broad expanses of
pavement:
         (a)   Landscaped islands shall be developed and distributed throughout
the parking lot to define major circulation aisles and driving lanes and
provide visual and climatic relief from the broad expanses of pavement;
         (b)   Each island shall be a minimum of six feet in any horizontal
dimension;
         (c)   Within the landscaped islands, there shall be provided one major
shade tree for the first 20 parking spaces and one additional shade tree for
every ten additional parking spaces, provided there is no impairment to the
visibility of motorists or pedestrians. Each tree, at the time of installation,
having a clear trunk height of at least six feet and a minimum caliper of two
inches;
         (d)   Shrubs or low, spreading plant materials may be planted within
the required landscaped islands provided there is no impairment to the
visibility of motorists or pedestrians; and
         (e)   Landscaping needed to meet the perimeter landscape requirement
shall not be counted toward interior landscaping.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the area of a parking lot shall be
the total vehicular surface area including circulation aisles.
   (H)   The ARO shall determine the type and location of landscaping that is
necessary and appropriate to be placed at the exterior of buildings in order to
minimize the visual impact of large expanses of all areas of buildings. The
Planning Commission shall determine that the application is consistent with the
recommendations of the ARO;
   (I)   Adequate utility, drainage and other necessary facilities will be
provided per city stormwater regulations to assure that other parcels in the
vicinity shall not be unreasonably burdened with surface water runoff from the
subject parcel;
   (J)   Adequate access roads or entrance or exit drives will be provided and
will be designed so as to prevent traffic hazards and to minimize traffic
conflicts in congestion in public streets and alleys;
   (K)   The location and size of the conditional use, the nature and intensity
of the operation involved or conducted in connection with it, the size of the
site in relation to it, and the location of the site with respect to streets
giving access to it, shall be such that it will be in harmony with the
appropriate and orderly development of the district in which it is located;
   (L)   The location, nature and height of buildings, structures, walls and
fences of the site and the nature and extent of landscaping and screening on
the site shall be such that the use will not unreasonably hinder or discourage
the appropriate development, use and enjoyment of adjacent land, buildings, and
structures for the primary permitted use of this district, single-family
residential use; and
   (M)   The proposed conditional use will not cause substantial injury to the
value of other property in the neighborhood in which it is located and will
contribute to and promote the convenience and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.25)
§ 150.049 RESIDENCE ZONE FENCING.
   (A)   Permits and inspections.
      (1)   No person shall construct or erect a fence or wall without first
obtaining approval from the City Manager and a building permit, if applicable.
The City Manager’s approval is subject to the City Manager’s sole discretion
and such approval may be withheld for any reason.
      (2)   Approval from City Manager is not required for repairs of existing
fences, for replacement of a fence for which the original approval can be
produced, or for invisible fences.
      (3)   Approval from City Manager shall not be required for vegetative
hedges or invisible fences but they shall be subject to any applicable
requirements of this section.
      (4)   Where a building permit is required, the application for such
permit shall include payment of any required fee.
      (5)   The city may furnish a necessary inspection of any fence or wall.
      (6)   Appeals from the City Manager’s decision with respect to any wall
or fence shall be to the Board of Zoning Appeals and the decision of the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall be final.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   All fences and walls, and any related supporting structures or
appurtenances, shall be contained within the lot lines of the applicable lot
and shall not encroach into adjoining or abutting lots and/or rights-of-way.
Property owners, with written permission from abutting property owners, may
connect to fences on adjoining properties.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be the duty of each lot owner and contractor, or an
agent thereof, to determine lot lines and to ascertain that the fence or wall
does not deviate from the plans as approved by the city issuing any applicable
certificate or permit, and that the fence or wall does not encroach on another
lot or existing easement.
         (b)   The issuance of the certificate or permit, and any inspection by
the city, shall not be construed to mean that the city has determined the fence
is not encroaching on another lot, nor shall it relieve the property owner of
the duty imposed on him or her herein.
      (3)   All fences, walls and hedges shall be subject to visibility
clearance requirements as determined by the City Manager’s aesthetic
discretion, which will be based upon Planning Commission’s periodic approval of
preferred templates.
      (4)   (a)   The smooth finished side of the fence or wall shall be the
side of the fence that faces outward from the lot or yard being fenced.
         (b)   All supporting posts must be located on the side facing the
interior of the property upon which the fence or wall is located.
         (c)   If a fence has two similarly finished sides (including
supporting posts), either side may face the adjacent property.
      (5)   Both sides of all fences or walls and the surrounding property,
where reasonably accessible, shall be maintained in equally good condition in
accordance with city maintenance standards.
      (6)   Walls shall be prohibited within all utility easements. Fences that
are placed in utility easements are subject to removal without notice by
utility companies or the city when work is being done in the utility easements.
Replacement of the fence shall be at the property owners’ expense.
      (7)   Fences, walls and hedges shall not impede, inhibit or obstruct
culverts, drains, natural watercourses or stormwater drainage in any zoning
district.
      (8)   If any provision of this section is violated, the city may order
that the fence or wall be removed. No property owner shall fail to remove such
fence or wall within ten days of the order.
      (9)   Adjacent properties shall not be materially affected with any fence
or wall.
   (C)   Measurement.
      (1)   Fences or walls in the front or side yard shall be no more than
four feet in height, with the exception that retaining walls in the front or
side yard shall be no more than six feet in height.
      (2)   Fences or walls in the rear yard shall not exceed six and one-half
feet in height, with the exception that retaining walls in the back yard shall
be no more than eight feet in height.
      (3)   The maximum fence or wall height shall be measured from the lowest
point within three feet on either side of the fence to the top most portion of
the fence between posts.
      (4)   Supporting posts, including decorative features, may exceed the
fence or wall height a maximum of six inches in residence districts, and 12
inches in business districts.
      (5)   Fencing or walls should follow the natural contour of the land on
which it is located.
   (D)   Materials and design.
      (1)   No fence shall be composed of scrap materials, tires, canvas,
cardboard, asphalt style shingles, electrically charged fencing, corrugated
metal, wire mesh, welded rolled wire, chicken wire or sheet metal.
      (2)   Chain link style fencing shall all be required to be vinyl coated
and shall only be permitted in rear yards.
      (3)   Fencing that includes barbed wire, razor wire or other sharp-
pointed material shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Picket fences shall have blunt points.
      (5)   Materials used for fences or walls shall be of weather-resistant
materials or treated so that they are weather-resistant.
   (E)   Nonconforming fencing. If more than 50% of a nonconforming fence is to
be removed replaced, the entire portion of a fence that is nonconforming shall
either be completely removed or replaced with fencing that complies with the
standards of this section.
   (F)   Penalty. This section is subject to enforcement and penalty as
specified in §
150.999.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.26) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.050 CONVERSION OF EXISTING ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. There are three primary purposes for authorizing certain
existing accessory buildings to be converted to permit habitation that is
accessory and incidental to the habitation of the principal dwelling.
      (1)   The limited conversion of existing accessory buildings for
habitation is intended to enable an extension of the residential use of a lot
that is compatible with existing residence district uses. This means that the
habitation of an existing accessory building is intended and shall be limited
to uses that are incidental and accessory to the occupation of the principal
building for residential purposes. Furthermore, this means that a property
owner who chooses to extend the habitation to an existing accessory building
shall not permit the occupation of such building unless it is consistent with
one or more of the limited uses set forth in this section. CONVERSION, as used
in this section, does not mean or require that an applicant prove that a
portion of the existing accessory building is actually used or has been used
for habitation previously.
      (2)   The conversion of certain existing accessory buildings is intended
to slow the assemblage of existing parcels for subdivision development and thus
slow the acceleration of increased density within residence districts. This
purpose is consistent with maintaining existing green space in residence
districts.
      (3)   Permitting the extension of habitation to certain existing
accessory buildings will provide an incentive to preserve some of the
historical aspects of the city. In lieu of the removal and/or replacement,
immediate neighbors can benefit by the continuity of buildings that reflect and
maintain the historical fabric of the community. As used in this section
HISTORICAL ASPECTS and HISTORICAL FABRIC are intended to mean the reasonable
preservation of the exterior appearance of the accessory building. The terms
are not intended to be a total prohibition from replacing siding, painting,
replacing windows or roofing. However, any expansion of the volume of the
building, as measured by the exterior walls shall not be considered consistent
with this historical purpose, nor shall such expansion be permitted as part of
any requested conversion.
   (B)   Conversion of existing accessory buildings. Existing accessory
buildings may be converted to use primarily for habitation as a dwelling on the
condition that the property owner files an application with the City Manager
and the Board of Zoning Appeals approves of such conversion, as determined by
the Board of Zoning Appeals, after a public hearing, which shall be advertised
and noticed in the same manner as requests for variances. In reviewing such
application, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall carry out the spirit and intent
of this zoning code to protect the fundamental single-family residential nature
of the city and in furtherance of the aforesaid purposes. As mandated in the
City Charter, the Board of Zoning Appeals is not authorized to grant a variance
in any cases in which the deviation from an existing zoning ordinance is so
substantial that it is equivalent to a change in the zoning district.
   (C)   No additional accessory buildings. Approval of the conversion of an
accessory building for dwelling purposes shall not be construed to permit or
create the right to any additional accessory buildings.
   (D)   Penalties. In the event that the owner(s) or occupant(s) of a lot
violates any provisions of the section, above, the owner(s) or occupant(s)
shall be subject to all civil or criminal penalties provided in §§
150.004 and
150.999 of this code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.27) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 PARKING.
   (A)   Parking requirements in residence districts. Parking space or spaces
shall be provided on each lot on which a residence structure is erected in a
residence district, and the number of such spaces that shall be so provided
shall be at least two in the case of a single-family dwelling. No driveway
entrance, in any residence district, shall be constructed with, or altered to,
a width of less than ten feet or more than 26 feet at the curb or roadway.
Driveway entrances shall not hereafter on any lot be constructed or widened to
occupy more than an aggregate of 26 feet of such lot’s frontage on the same
street. On any lot in a residence district that has or shall have more than one
driveway entrance from all abutting streets combined, no such entrance or part
thereof shall hereafter be provided within ten feet from the adjacent side line
of the nearest such entrance on the same lot.
   (B)   Parking and storing of commercial vehicles in residence districts.
      (1)   Purpose. The parking and storage of motor vehicles in residence
districts should be consistent and incidental to the residential use of those
properties. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the parking and storage
of large commercial vehicles which are not providing a service that is
incidental to the residential use of the property. Large commercial vehicles,
unless providing a service, detract from the residential atmosphere of such
districts by creating visual clutter and projecting an image more consistent
with commercial or industrial usage.
      (2)   Prohibition. No person shall cause to stand, park, store or permit
the standing, parking or storage of any commercial vehicle in or upon any
driveway, side yard, front yard, or rear yard, unless enclosed within a garage
within any residence district.
      (3)   Exception. The foregoing prohibition shall not apply to commercial
vehicles which are temporarily parked incidental to providing maintenance,
construction, repair or delivery services at or upon the premises, including
the delivery or loading of property or passengers.
      (4)   Enforcement. For the purpose of enforcement with respect to the
foregoing, citations or summons shall be issued for such violations through the
Police or Building Departments. Any appeal regarding the within sections shall
be submitted to the Board of Zoning Appeals which shall not grant a variance
unless a hardship is demonstrated by the applicant. If the Board of Zoning
Appeals does grant a variance, it shall impose sufficient conditions for the
screening of such vehicle from adjacent properties and for minimizing the
duration that such vehicle may be parked or stored on the premises, as well as
such other conditions to mitigate the impact of the vehicle on the residential
area. The mere fact that the commercial vehicle is essential to one’s
employment or occupation shall not constitute hardship. This section is subject
to enforcement and penalty as specified in §
150.999.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.28) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 PANHANDLE LOTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Panhandle lots do not enhance residential communities unless their
creation, development, and/or redevelopment are strictly regulated to ensure
they do not negatively impact surrounding properties, access points, service of
utilities or public safety requirements.
      (2)   Accordingly, the creation, development and/or redevelopment of a
panhandle lot is discouraged. Applications hereunder should only be approved by
the Planning Commission if an applicant both:
         (a)   Satisfies the administrative prerequisites to obtaining
approval; and
         (b)   On balance, the evidentiary factors set forth below weigh in
favor of granting the applicant’s request.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all creation of and development and
redevelopment on panhandle lots are expressly prohibited unless located in an
R-1 or R-2 Single-Family District.
   (B)   Application. Prior to appearing before the Planning Commission,
applicants must complete an application form, which specifies whether the
request is for the creation, development, or redevelopment of a panhandle lot.
The application shall be in compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and in such form as approved by the Planning Commission, and shall include such
additional information and documentation as may be determined by the City
Manager to evaluate and process the application.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Once the completed applications and documentation have been
received, the City Manager shall seek reports from city officials, as
determined by the City Manager. In addition, the City Manager shall confirm
that the criteria set forth within division (D) and/or (E) of this section are
satisfied prior to submitting the subject application to Planning Commission
for review. The City Manager shall create a report indicating his or her
determination with respect to each criterion, incorporating suggestions from
the ARO, if any.
      (2)   The applicant shall be advised regarding the contents of the
reports, including the City Manager’s determination as to whether the criteria
have been satisfied, and may withdraw the application, resubmit an amended
application, or proceed with the application. If applicant elects to proceed,
he or she shall provide 15 copies of all plats and development plans to the
City Manager. Once a hearing date in connection with the subject application
has been set, the City Manager shall notify all property owners within 200 feet
of subject property of such hearing.
   (D)   Criteria for creation of panhandle lots. In order to approve the
creation of a panhandle lot, the applicant must satisfy the following criteria:
      (1)   The lot or lots that would front the dedicated street if the
panhandle lot is approved (hereinafter referred to as the front lot or lots)
shall, after being subdivided, meet all the requirements of the district in
which they are situated;
      (2)   The proposed rear lot (i.e., the panhandle lot) shall meet all
zoning requirements for the district in which it is located except that:
         (a)   The minimum area requirements shall be as follows:
            1.   Zoning District R-1. 300% of the minimum zoning requirements
of the district or 100% of the area of the remaining front lot, whichever is
larger in size; and
            2.   Zoning District R-2. 400% of the minimum zoning requirements
of the district or 100% of the area of the remaining front lot, whichever is
larger in size.
         (b)   In calculating the area of a panhandle lot for purposes of
determining whether it meets the minimum area requirements, the access strip to
the rear lot shall not be considered part of the area of the rear lot.
         (c)   Any portion of a lot (front or rear) which is located in a
public right-of-way easement shall not be included when calculating minimum
area.
      (3)   No additional panhandle lots shall be created behind a rear lot
(i.e., the stacking of panhandle lots shall be prohibited).
      (4)   The minimum width of the entrance to rear lots (along the entire
length of the panhandle) shall be 20 feet and the maximum width shall be 40
feet (along the entire length of the panhandle). In order to assure that the
drive to the rear lot shall support all emergency vehicles, the depth/thickness
of the drive shall be not less than the depth/thickness required for a public
street, as set forth in the city’s subdivision rules and regulations. However,
curbs and gutters shall not be required unless such a condition is later
imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate drainage problems. The location
of any curb cut must be identified on the application to be approved by the
Planning Commission. In addition, adequate pavement must be provided for
turning vehicles, including emergency vehicles, around on the rear lot. The
improved surface of the driveway shall be at least 12 feet in width, unless a
greater width is directed and authorized by the Architectural Review Officer
or, ultimately, the Planning Commission. The Architectural Review Officer and
Planning Commission may require that landscaping, walls, drainage areas and
other improvements be placed and maintained in the unpaved areas of the
panhandle.
      (5)   A single access to public right-of-way, shared by the front lot and
the panhandle lot, shall be required, unless it is not practicable for reasons
of safety, aesthetics, economics, engineering, or because this requirement
would be inconsistent with accepted land planning concepts. The driveway to a
rear lot shall limit changes of direction, so as to permit the easy entrance
and exit of emergency vehicles. An alternative access to the rear lot over the
panhandle may be approved for reasons of safety, aesthetics, benefit to
adjoining properties or other reasons that are consistent with valid land
planning and zoning within this community.
      (6)   Except as provided otherwise herein, all zoning and subdivision
requirements, such as sewer connections, shall apply to front and rear lots. No
panhandle lot shall be created unless sewer connections are available for front
and rear lots.
      (7)   A minimum of two outdoor parking spaces must be provided in
addition to a minimum of two garaged parking spaces. None of these spaces shall
be located in the panhandle portion of the lot.
      (8)   If either the Fire Chief, Police Chief or City Engineer identify
any specific concerns for safety, such as may be caused by the location of curb
cuts, the topography of the access drive, or such other factors as may raise
concern regarding public health, safety and welfare, including the rendering of
public safety services to the proposed front or rear lots, the Planning
Commission may deny the application for this reason alone if it determines that
such safety issue is a valid concern. In any event, this section does not
create liability on the part of the city for any damages that may arise as a
result of the granting of any application for the creation of a panhandle lot.
Any review of such applications is intended only for the safety, health and
welfare of the general public, and is not intended as a representation of
safety to any specific party or person.
      (9)   Adequate provisions must be shown to ensure the proper disposal of
surface water runoff from the front and rear lots. If the Planning Commission
is not satisfied with an applicant’s plan for disposal of surface water, the
Planning Commission may condition its approval upon an alternative plan for
handling surface water discharge. In making such a determination, the Planning
Commission may consider the relative costs, relative impact on adjoining
property, capacity of systems and ease the cost of maintenance of systems.
      (10)   No structures, except for fences and walls permitted under this
code, shall be permitted in the panhandle portion of the lot.
      (11)   The minimum front yard setback requirement shall be measured from
the lot line that creates the rear lot line of the adjacent lot.
      (12)   If there are nonconforming uses on a proposed front lot, the
Planning Commission, as a condition for approval, may require that one or more
of the nonconformities be discontinued or reduced.
   (E)   Criteria for the development or redevelopment of structures on a
panhandle lot. In order to approve the development or redevelopment of any
structure on a panhandle lot, the applicant must satisfy the following
criteria.
      (1)   The Architectural Review Officer shall review the application,
including the architectural plans, to ensure that the proposed new building(s)
and structures are compatible and complement the existing buildings in the
vicinity, including architectural style, exterior construction materials, size
of building, and the height and relative elevation of the buildings. In
addition, the Architectural Review Officer shall review the application to
ensure that the principal building meets the minimum square footage required by
this zoning code and, also, that the proposed building is no larger than 120%
of the largest conforming building on a lot contiguous to the proposed
panhandle lot, including the principal building (existing or proposed) on the
front lot.
      (2)   The front of the dwelling on the rear lot shall face toward and be
substantially parallel to the rear yard line of the front lot, unless the City
Manager determines a different alignment is preferable and will have no greater
impact on the use and enjoyment of adjoining properties, and Planning
Commission approves such alignment.
      (3)   The principal dwelling on the rear lot shall not be constructed
closer than 50 feet from the front property line of the subject panhandle lot.
      (4)   The principal dwelling on the rear lot shall not be constructed
closer than 40 feet from the rear and side property lines of the subject
panhandle lot.
   (F)   Motor vehicles on panhandle lot. No parking of motor vehicles shall be
permitted on any shared portion of a common access unless within the designated
parking spaces on improved paved surfaces.
   (G)   Decision. In determining whether to approve, approve with conditions,
or deny any application hereunder, the Planning Commission shall consider the
City Manager’s report and determine whether any of the circumstances set forth
in divisions (G)(1) through (G)(6) of this section exist with respect to the
subject application. The Planning Commission shall designate, in writing, any
specific conditions of approval, and no building permit shall be issued for the
subject lot unless adequate assurance is provided that all conditions imposed
by the Planning Commission will be met. If the Planning Commission determines,
by a majority vote, that one or more of the circumstances set forth below exist
with respect to the subject application, then such vote shall constitute a
denial of the subject application:
      (1)   Considering the lots, structures, building, topography and uses of
real estate in proximity to the proposed panhandle and the front lot, the
application does not depict a future development that is significantly
compatible with surrounding areas;
      (2)   The natural or existing surface water drainage will likely be
altered (increased, retained or diverted) to such an extent that an adverse
impact to other properties or to any public rights-of-way will occur under some
circumstances;
      (3)   The height, elevation, orientation, location or architectural
features of any proposed building or structure intended to be placed on either
a panhandle or a front lot is unreasonably inconsistent with the orientation,
location or architectural features of existing buildings or structures in the
vicinity;
      (4)   The location of the access point, the length, the width or the
grade of a proposed driveway presents features that are not consistent with
safety, in any and all weather, or will cause the creation of an impervious
driveway/parking surface that will cover such a large area of open ground or
require removal of significant trees or other landscaping that existing green
spaces will suffer excessive reduction;
      (5)   Proposed grading of site, proposed walls, fences, terraces or the
proposed location of other structures or buildings will unreasonably interfere
with natural topographic patterns which contribute to the appearance of the
existing site; and
      (6)   The proposed panhandle lot, if created, would unreasonably inhibit
future uses, structures or buildings on adjacent lots which would be permitted
by the existing zoning regulations. Such structures, buildings or uses need not
actually exist at the time this condition is considered.
   (H)   Final approval. Final approval of any application for creation of a
panhandle lot and/or dwelling shall be put in the form of a written resolution
by Planning Commission with appropriate attachments. Any conditions,
restrictions or limitations on said property which are imposed as a
consideration of granting the application shall be set forth or referenced in
the resolution. The resolution must be approved by a majority of vote of the
members attending the meeting.
   (I)   Contingent-approval permitted. In circumstances where an applicant
needs a variance from the objective requirements of this section, the Planning
Commission may provide contingent-approval of an application. Such contingent-
approval shall mean their approval of the application is subject to the
applicant obtaining any required variance(s) from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
If the Planning Commission provides contingent-approval of an application and
the Board of Zoning Appeals subsequently denies the applicant’s requested
variance(s), said denial shall constitute a rejection of the application,
altogether.
   (J)   Appeals. Any applicant that seeks approval from Planning Commission of
his or her application, pursuant to this section, and whose application is
denied by the Planning Commission, may appeal such decision to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing the decision must provide
notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the Planning Commission
and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the Planning Commission’s
provision of written notification of its denial to the applicant.
      (2)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public
hearing evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review applied by the
Planning Commission to the initial application, within 60 days of receiving
applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.29)
§ 150.053 STRUCTURES ATTACHED TO THE PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
construction or reconstruction of porches, decks and other structures that may
be attached to the principal dwelling units within the city. Building materials
as well as the style of construction of such structures determine whether the
structure adds to the value of the residence and the surrounding properties or
detracts such value. It is also the purpose of this section to identify certain
modest structures that serve a useful purpose and provide minimal visual impact
from surrounding properties. Such minimal structures are intended to be exempt
from the zoning setback requirements, provided they meet the standards set
forth in this section. The structures identified in this regulation are
intended to be regulated in such a manner as to protect or increase the value
of residential properties within the city, while permitting reasonable use of
properties in a manner that enhances the residential lifestyle. This section
shall also provide guidance to the Planning Commission and the administration
in determining if a proposed structure conforms to the zoning code or whether a
variance needs to be requested.
   (B)   Requirements and permitted location of structures. The following
requirements shall apply to the following structures.
      (1)   Decks or ramps.
         (a)   A deck or ramp may be erected in the side or rear yard only,
unless such ramp or deck is for resident’s medical necessity, and constructed
in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq.
         (b)   A deck or ramp shall meet all the setback requirements for the
rear and side yard, unless such ramp or deck is for resident’s medical
necessity, and constructed in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
         (c)   If at any point a deck or ramp is not for resident’s medical
necessity or constructed in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., then such deck or ramp must satisfy the
requirements under (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) of this section or such deck or ramp
shall be considered in violation of this division (B)(1).
         (d)   If the deck or ramp encroaches within the minimum rear or side
yard setback and thus requires a variance, it shall meet the following
standards:
            1.   The deck or ramp materials must be finished with paint or an
opaque stain and shall not include raw decking material; and
            2.   The deck or ramp must have skirting or an apron at the bottom.
         (e)   Size limitation: decks shall be no larger than 25% of the
footprint of the principal building or dwelling.
      (2)   Landings or stoops.
         (a)   The landing or stoop may be located in the front, side or rear
yards.
         (b)   A landing or stoop is exempt from the setback requirements and
cannot be built more than four feet from the principal building or dwelling or
accessory building or structure to which it abuts and shall not be any larger
than 32 square feet.
         (c)   Landings and stoops located in a front yard setback must be
constructed of concrete or masonry.
      (3)   Porches.
         (a)   A porch may be erected in the front, side or rear yards.
         (b)   A porch shall meet all the setback requirements as stipulated in
these regulations.
         (c)   A porch shall be a one-story structure.
         (d)   If the porch encroaches within the front, side or rear yard
setback and thus requires a variance, it shall meet the following standards.
            1.   If constructed of wood or similar material, the porch must be
finished with paint or an opaque stain and shall not include raw decking
material.
            2.   The porch must have skirting or an apron at the bottom.
            3.   The porch must contain appropriate roofing materials that are
compatible with the design of the porch and principal building or dwelling.
            4.   The porch flooring materials must be constructed from
concrete, masonry or finished tongue-and-groove type wood or composite
flooring.
      (4)   Balconies.
         (a)   A balcony may be erected in the front, side or rear yards.
         (b)   A balcony shall meet all the setback requirements as stipulated
in these regulations.
         (c)   If a balcony encroaches within the front, side or rear yard
setback and thus requires a variance, it shall meet the following standards.
            1.   If constructed of wood or similar material, the balcony must
be finished with paint or an opaque stain and shall not include raw decking
material.
            2.   The balcony flooring materials must be constructed from
concrete, masonry or finished tongue-and-groove type wood or composite
flooring.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.30)
§ 150.054 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct a garage sale within the
city in violation of the sections in this chapter.
   (B)   No garage sale shall be permitted for more than two consecutive days.
   (C)   No resident or property owner may conduct more than two garage sales
at any residential premises during any calendar year.
   (D)   Garage sales shall be permitted during daylight hours only.
   (E)   Advertising signs for a garage sale shall conform to all applicable
provisions of the sign code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.31) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.055 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Location. No person shall hereafter construct, install or erect or
attempt to construct, install or erect within the city on any parcel of real
property having an area of less than five acres, any pool or other water-
containing enclosure (for purposes of this section, an “enclosure”), whether
above or below the surface of the ground, designed or intended to be used for
the purpose of swimming, recreational bathing, wading or other recreational
water activity unless the area of the surface of the water contained therein
does not exceed one-fourth of the area of the rear yard of any structure on the
same lot or parcel, and unless no part of the water-containing portion of the
pool or enclosure lies within 15 feet of the side line or within 15 feet of the
rear line of the lot or parcel on which it is constructed or placed. No part of
any pool or enclosure shall be constructed in the front yard of any structure
on the same lot or parcel.
   (B)   Requirements for swimming pool construction.
      (1)   No owner or occupant of any parcel of real property within the city
shall hereafter construct, install, erect, maintain, use or permit the use of,
or permit the continued existence of, any private pool or enclosure on the
parcel unless the pool or enclosure has a perimeter not exceeding 25 feet and a
depth not exceeding two feet, or unless the pool or enclosure is screened
during all hours in which it is not in use and is surrounded by a fence or
wall:
         (a)   Not less than 42, nor more than 78 inches in height above grade;
         (b)   Located in reasonably close proximity to the pool or enclosure;
and
         (c)   The structure of which is sufficiently rigid to prevent the
passage of small children. Any required fence or wall erected to a height of 78
inches, or any lesser height, may be of solid construction and without
interstices for its entire height, provided the pool or enclosure it surrounds
is located in the yard to the rear of and on the same premises with a dwelling,
and that the fence or wall does not at any point extend forward of the rear
line of the dwelling.
      (2)   No owner or occupant shall hereafter maintain, use or permit the
use of, or permit the continued existence of, any ladder as a means of access
to any pool or enclosure that is erected, located or maintained above the
surface of the ground, and has a perimeter in excess of 25 feet and a depth in
excess of two feet, unless the ladder is readily detachable from the pool or
enclosure. The owner or occupant shall detach and remove the ladder from the
pool or enclosure promptly upon each termination of the use of the pool or
enclosure and shall store the ladder in the dwelling or garage on the same
premises with the pool or enclosure during all hours in which the pool or
enclosure is not in use. Use of the pool or enclosure shall be deemed to
terminate at the end of each season and each day, and of each lesser period of
actual use.
      (3)   No fence or wall required under this section shall be erected or
constructed without securing a permit therefor from the City Manager. The City
Manager shall, in that connection, have the right to require that plans and
specifications be submitted by any permit applicant prior to the issuance of
any permit.
   (C)   Building permits. Pools and enclosures subject to the provisions of
this section shall not be constructed except pursuant to building permits
lawfully issued in accordance with Chapter 152.
   (D)   Violations. In addition to the remedy provided in this chapter and any
remedy provided under the Ohio Revised Code, the City Law Director shall have
the authority and is authorized to institute any appropriate action or
proceeding in law or in equity on behalf of the city, any board or official
thereof, to prevent the construction, installation or erection of any pool or
enclosure, including any club pool, in violation of this chapter, or to force
the removal of any pool or enclosure, including any club pool, so constructed,
installed or erected, or to restrain, correct or abate the violation, or to
restrain the use of any pool or enclosure, including any club pool, that does
not in its construction and facilities and in the facilities connected
therewith or in its operation, comply with requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.32)
§ 150.056 OUTDOOR RECREATION ONE DISTRICT (O-1).
   In the Outdoor Recreation One District (O-1), no building, structure,
facility or premises shall be used, and no building or structure shall be
erected that is intended or designed to be used, in whole or in part, except
for one or more of the following specified uses:
   (A)   Facilities for the use of the general public, including residents, and
members and guests of non-profit organizations, sports organizations, school
organizations, and the like, including, but not limited to, tennis courts,
basketball courts, baseball diamonds, soccer fields, playground equipment,
handball courts, swimming pools and picnic shelters and areas; provided,
however, that reservations may be required for the use of such facilities, as
determined by the city from time to time;
   (B)   Facilities for members on a membership basis;
   (C)   Structures and facilities for the use of Camargo Canyon Reserve by the
general public, including residents and nonresidents; and
   (D)   Other uses as may be approved by the city from time to time.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.33)
BUSINESS AND ENTERPRISE DISTRICTS
§ 150.070 BUSINESS AND ENTERPRISE DISTRICTS (B-1, B-2, B-3).
   (A)   Districts. For the purposes of this zoning code, the city is hereby
divided into three classes of business districts as follows.
 
Table 150-6
Abbreviation District
Nonresidential Zoning Districts
B-1          Business One - Downtown District - Main Street Madeira B-1
B-2          Business Two - Montgomery Road Enterprise District B-2
B-3          Business Three - Makers, Retailers and Auxiliary District B-3
 
   (B)   Purpose. The following are the purpose statements for each of the
established business districts in the city.
      (1)   Business One - Downtown District - Main Street Madeira B-1. It is
the primary purpose of the Business One - Downtown District - Main Street
Madeira B-1 to be the commercial and cultural heart of the city and be
considered a destination spot for residents and visitors, where a mix of
businesses can thrive while maintaining a “small town” character and providing
an aesthetically cohesive and pedestrian friendly environment.
      (2)   Business Two - Montgomery Road Enterprise District B-2. It is the
primary purpose of the Business Two - Montgomery Road Enterprise District B-
2 to be a commercial district with a mix of restaurants, retail establishments,
offices, and other businesses.
      (3)   Business Three - Makers, Retailers and Auxiliary District B-3. It
is the primary purpose of the Business Three - Makers, Retailers and Auxiliary
District B-3 to be a commercial and manufacturing district with a mix of retail
establishments, offices, and manufacturers, including retail establishments
that manufacturer, finish, and assemble products and materials on site.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.34)
§ 150.071 OUTDOOR DINING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to permit, subject to certain
guidelines and standards, outdoor dining as an accessory use to buildings
occupied by a business that serves food or drink for on dining premises
consumption.
   (B)   Criteria. Outdoor dining shall be permitted as an accessory use only
if an outdoor dining permit is obtained under division (C) of this section and
all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   Outdoor dining areas shall be located along a sidewalk or on
property adjacent to the principal building or between the principal building
and parking area;
      (2)   Outdoor dining areas shall not be located in such a manner as to
require customers and employees to cross driveways or parking areas to go
between the dining area and the principal building;
      (3)   If no grade separation is provided between vehicular traffic and
the outdoor dining area of a height sufficient enough to stop a vehicle,
permanent railings or fencing shall be provided around the dining area to
provide safety protections from moving vehicles. If the outdoor dining area is
adjacent to a street or area that is closed to vehicular traffic, no railing or
fencing shall be required;
      (4)   If the outdoor dining area is located on a sidewalk, the area shall
be designed so there is a minimum of five feet of clearance adjacent to the
dining area to allow for pedestrian circulation;
      (5)   Outdoor dining equipment must be constructed of non-reflective
materials;
      (6)   No part of the outdoor dining area may be within 50 feet of any
residence district;
      (7)   Signage in the outdoor dining areas shall be in compliance with the
sign code. However, directional signs may be permitted if specifically approved
by the ARO as conducive for safety;
      (8)   The outdoor dining area shall be consistent with any other
development plans, conditions, variances, or other special restrictions that
apply to the property; and
      (9)   The outdoor dining area meets all applicable laws and regulations,
including Board of Health Regulations, Department of Liquor Control
Regulations, and building and zoning regulations of the city.
   (C)   Application and permit.
      (1)   Application. No person shall provide outdoor dining in a business
district without first obtaining an outdoor dining permit from the City
Manager, and, if applicable, a variance as required under this chapter.
Application for an outdoor dining permit shall be made to the City Manager and
shall include an outdoor dining plan. The application shall be in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter and in such form as approved by the City
Manager and shall include such additional information and documentation as may
be determined by the ARO and the City Manager to evaluate and process the
application.
         (a)   Outdoor dining plan. An outdoor dining plan must be submitted as
part of the application for the permit.
         (b)   Inclusions. The plan shall include the following items:
            1.   A sketch to scale of the dining premises clearly defining the
area proposed for outdoor dining including any dining encroachment into a
public right-of-way and/or sidewalks. The sketch must depict the proposed
location of each item to be placed within the area, such as chairs, tables and
umbrellas;
            2.   Pictures or other adequate description of chairs, tables,
umbrellas, fencing, screening, plantings and other changes proposed for the
area;
            3.   Description of service to be provided in the outdoor dining
area, including the proposed hours of operation, whether alcoholic beverages
will be served, consumed or mixed in the area, and the type of food to be
served or brought into the area; and
            4.   If the applicant is not the owner of the dining premises, an
authorization of the owner of the dining premises to apply for the outdoor
dining permit is required.
      (2)   ARO approval of outdoor dining plan. Upon submission of the
application for an outdoor dining permit to the City Manager, the City Manager
shall forward the application, including the outdoor dining plan, to the ARO
for the ARO’s review. The outdoor dining plan shall be subject to the ARO’s
written pre-approval, which shall be determined in the ARO’s sole discretion.
If the outdoor dining plan is approved by the ARO, the outdoor dining area
shall be in accordance with the standards and criteria approved in writing by
the ARO and countersigned by the applicant.
         (a)   Criteria. In determining whether to approve or deny an outdoor
dining plan, the ARO shall consider all criteria it deems necessary, including,
but not limited to, the following criteria before approving or denying the
plan:
            1.   The type of activity that will occur in the outdoor dining
area;
            2.   Pedestrian traffic patterns;
            3.   Waste receptacles;
            4.   Distractions to vehicular traffic;
            5.   Lighting, proximity to roadways, color schemes, and
desirability of screening or fencing the outdoor dining area;
            6.   Zoning setback requirements;
            7.   Visual and aesthetic impact of chairs, tables, umbrellas and
other items placed within a required setback area;
            8.   Screening of lights, noise, and other activity in outdoor
dining area from nearby residences; and
            9.   Any other additional information or factors as determined by
the ARO.
         (b)   Public right-of-way. The ARO shall not approve any outdoor
dining plan that will cause any public sidewalk to be unreasonably impeded by
the proposed plan. Any outdoor dining permit which approves the use of any
public right-of-way (including sidewalks) shall be revocable at any time,
without cause, by the city.
         (c)   Consultation. The ARO shall consult, as appropriate, with the
Fire Chief, Police Chief, Building Inspector or City Manager for advice and
recommendations on the outdoor dining plan.
      (3)   City Manager approval. Each application for an outdoor dining
permit shall be subject to the City’s Manager’s review and written approval,
which shall be determined in the City Manager’s sole discretion. The approval
of the City Manager shall signify that the outdoor dining plan has been
approved by the ARO and that it meets the criteria set forth in this section.
      (4)   Permit. Application for a permit shall be made to the City Manager
with the proposed outdoor dining plan.
         (a)   No outdoor dining area shall be allowed without a permit, or as
otherwise approved by variance.
         (b)   A permit shall be issued only if the application complies with
this chapter, and the required fee has been paid.
         (c)   The fee for the initial outdoor dining permit shall be $25.
         (d)   No outdoor dining permit shall be issued for any plan that does
not comply with the city zoning code.
         (e)   No variances shall be permitted except by appeal to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
         (f)   Each permit shall be annual and shall expire on December 31 of
the calendar year in which it is issued.
   (D)   Violation and enforcement. The outdoor dining permit may be revoked
upon written notice if the outdoor dining area is determined to violate the
provisions of this zoning code or the terms and criteria approved by the ARO
and/or City Manager. The permit holder will have ten days to correct the
specified violations unless there is determined to be a public hazard which
will require the immediate removal or correction of the violation. Failure to
correct the violations shall cause the permit to be revoked. This section is
subject to enforcement and penalty as specified in §
150.999.
   (E)   Appeal. If application for a permit for an outdoor dining area is
denied by ARO and/or City Manager, the applicant may appeal the decision to the
Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days from the denial. Such appeal shall be
filed in writing with the City Manager.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.35; Ord. 24-04, passed 7-22-2024) Penalty,
see §
150.999
§ 150.072 PARKING IN BUSINESS AND ENTERPRISE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
standards for the development of off-street parking and loading facilities, to
prevent or alleviate the congestion of public streets, and to minimize any
detrimental effects of off-street parking and loading areas on adjacent
properties.
   (B)   Exemptions in B-1 Business District. In order to avoid traffic
congestion and to provide for safe circulation of motor vehicles and
pedestrians, and for the protection and convenience of the general public, any
properties and uses in B-1 are exempt from divisions (C), (D), (E) and (J) of
this section.
   (C)   Required parking spaces. All businesses in B-2 and B-3 are required to
provide an adequate number of parking spaces for the business, which shall be
determined based upon the property’s use and as provided for in this section.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   New and expanded uses. The off-street parking and loading
requirements of this section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   A new building;
         (b)   An alteration, addition or change of use of an existing
building; or
         (c)   An alteration or change of land that requires a change in
parking.
      (2)   Existing uses. The off-street parking and loading requirements of
this section shall not apply to buildings and land uses legally in existence on
the effective date of this zoning code unless modified in a manner stated in
division (D)(1) of this section. Any parking or loading facilities now serving
existing buildings shall not be reduced below the requirements set forth in
this section.
      (3)   Maintenance. The duty to provide and maintain all off-street
parking and loading areas shall be the joint and several responsibilities of
the owner, operator and lessee.
      (4)   Parking plan.
         (a)   Plan parking plan review. A parking plan is required for any
change set forth in division (D)(1) of this section and any new, expanded or
reduced off-street parking area within the city. The parking plan shall be
submitted with an application for a building permit to the city for the city’s
review for compliance with this section and any other applicable laws or
regulations.
         (b)   Requirements. The parking plan required under division (D)(4)(a)
of this section shall include the following:
            1.   Number of parking spaces;
            2.   Arrangement of parking aisles;
            3.   Location of driveway entrances;
            4.   Provisions for vehicular and pedestrian circulation;
            5.   Location or typical location of sidewalks, wheel stops, curbs,
lighting and other similar amenities;
            6.   Location of utilities, barriers, shelters and signs;
            7.   Location of landscaped areas and the types and location of
vegetation to be planted in them;
            8.   Typical cross-sections of pavement;
            9.   Stormwater drainage facilities;
            10.   An analysis of an adequate number of parking spaces in
accordance with division (D)(4)(c) of this section; and
            11.   Any other relevant information or documentation requested by
the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Written analysis of parking requirements. Each applicant is
required to provide an adequate number of parking spaces for the proposed use
or expansion of uses. As part of its parking plan, the applicant shall provide
a written analysis of parking requirements based on the following information:
            1.   Building square footage for each specific use to be served by
off-street parking;
            2.   Hours of operation;
            3.   Estimated number of patrons/customers at peak hours of
operation;
            4.   Maximum number of employees present on one shift;
            5.   Availability of joint parking areas;
            6.   Building occupancy loads; and
            7.   Any additional relevant information or documentation requested
by the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Denial. The Planning Commission has the authority to deny a
parking plan if it deems that an adequate amount of parking has not been
provided. The Planning Commission shall provide, in writing, the reasons for
the denial.
         (e)   Appeal. The applicant may appeal the decision of the Planning
Commission within 30 days of the written notification of denial in accordance
with §
150.029(G).
   (E)   Shared parking. Shared parking is encouraged and permitted if the
multiple uses that the shared parking will benefit can cooperatively establish
and operate the facilities. Shared parking shall be subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Joint use. Joint use of up to 75% of parking spaces may be
permitted for two or more uses located on the same, adjacent, or nearby parcels
provided that the applicant can demonstrate to the City Manager that the uses
will not substantially overlap in hours of operation or in demand for the
shared spaces.
      (2)   Residence district. Shared or off-site parking shall not be
permitted on a vacant lot in a residence district unless approved by the
Planning Commission as part of the application.
      (3)   Planning Commission review and approval. The Planning Commission
shall review and approve all shared parking facility plans and may place such
conditions upon such plans as it deems necessary to ensure that adequate off-
street parking spaces will be provided for all involved uses. Violations of
these conditions may nullify the approved shared parking facilities plan and
shall be deemed a violation of this section. Any change in use of the
activities served by a shared parking facility will be deemed an amendment to
the shared parking facility plan and will require Planning Commission review
and approval.
   (F)   Parking spaces.
      (1)   Dimensions. Each off-street parking space shall meet the minimum
dimensional requirements and shall have direct and unrestricted access to an
aisle of the minimum width set forth in the below table.
Table 150-7
Parking Stall and Aisle Dimensions
                                                           Bay Width (center to
Parking             Length of Aisle Width     Width of     center width of two
Angle   Stall Width Stall                     Access Drive row bay with aisle
                                                           between)
                              One Way Two Way              One Way Two Way
Table 150-7
Parking Stall and Aisle Dimensions
                                                         Bay Width (center to
Parking               Length of Aisle Width     Width of center width of two
Angle     Stall Width Stall                     Access   row bay with aisle
                                                Drive    between)
                                One Way Two Way          One Way Two Way
0 degrees 9 feet      22 feet   12 feet 18 feet 20 feet  24 feet 30 feet
30—53   9 feet      18 feet   13 feet 20 feet 20 feet  42 feet 49 feet
degrees
54—75   9 feet      18 feet   18 feet 22 feet 20 feet  52 feet 56 feet
degrees
76—90   9 feet      18 feet   22 feet 24 feet 20 feet  60 feet 62 feet
degrees
 
      (2)   Entrances and exits. Where room permits, parking spaces should be
entered and exited along parking aisles and not along main access drives for
the purposes of safety and to prevent traffic congestion.
      (3)   Accessible parking. The number and dimensions of accessible parking
spaces shall conform to the requirements of the Ohio Building Code.
      (4)   Surfaces. Every off-street parking lot shall be surfaced with a
hard surface such as asphalt, concrete or pavers. Pervious payment and other
sustainable surface options may be proposed by the applicant and are subject to
the review and approval of the Planning Commission, in consultation with the
City Engineer.
      (5)   Markings. All parking spaces shall be clearly marked with white
pavement markings, and markings shall be maintained.
   (G)   Parking standards.
      (1)   Location. Parking areas should be located in the side or rear yard
to the greatest extent feasible, except in B-1 in which case parking areas must
be located in the side or rear yard unless such requirement is waived by the
Planning Commission under division (H) of this section.
      (2)   Curbs. Curbs shall be provided along all drives that do not abut
parking spaces. All parking areas shall be edged with curbs. All parking areas
shall be designed to preclude parked vehicles from encroaching on or over a
sidewalk, bike path or street. Lack of curbs to incorporate sustainable parking
area design options may be proposed by the applicant and are subject to the
review and approval of the City Engineer.
      (3)   Ingress/egress. Whenever possible, parking lots, with bays
containing more than 20 spaces, shall provide ingress and egress at both ends
of each parking bay or parking lot. Whenever possible and practical, adjacent
developments shall share ingress and egress.
      (4)   Inoperable vehicles. No trucks, truck trailers, automobiles or
vehicles of any type shall be on skids, jacks or any other device that will
make them immobile or inoperable, except for emergency repairs.
      (5)   Trucks or trailers. No trucks or trailers of any kind shall be used
for storage purposes.
      (6)   Screening.
         (a)   Off-street parking areas for more than one vehicle and that are
within 100 feet of, or across the street from, any premises situated in any
residence district (unless such premises are developed with a nonresidential
use), shall have on the same premises a fence or wall, of such height (not less
than six feet) and so made or constructed and so placed as to completely
obscure such vehicles from the ordinary view at grade from the residence
district premises adjoining the premises on which such vehicles are parked.
         (b)   To the extent, however, that such vehicles are obscured by
natural objects or topographical features or by structures, no such fence or
wall shall be necessary. Any and all fences and/or walls shall be of commonly
accepted type and construction for such applications and the type and
construction shall be subject to the approval of the City Manager.
         (c)   Such fence, wall or shrubbery shall be maintained in good
condition and the decorated side of the fence shall face outside. A violator of
this division (G)(6)(c) may be permitted a maximum of six months, at the
discretion of the City Manager, and after notification of the violation, to
comply with this provision.
      (7)   Lighting. Any and all lighting used to illuminate any parking lot
shall be equipped so as to reflect light away from all premises in any
adjoining residence district.
      (8)   Access. Every parking space provided in compliance with this zoning
code shall be accessible to and from a public way abutting some part of the
premises, and shall be so situated and arranged as to permit the practicable
and reasonable expeditious turnaround of standard automobiles when all such
parking spaces on such premises are filled.
   (H)   Downtown District (B-1). Without limiting any standards set forth in
division (G) of this section, the following standards shall apply solely to the
Downtown District (B-1).
      (1)   Reduce visual impact. Parking garages and surface parking lots
shall be designed in a way to reduce the visual impact from Miami Avenue,
Laurel Avenue and/or Camargo Road and accommodate parking for local businesses.
      (2)   Location. Parking lots shall be located to the rear of buildings on
the premises, or, with advance written approval from the City Manager, to the
side of buildings on the premises (See Figure 5.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4288.png]
 
   Figure 5: These diagrams show the preferred lot configurations for drive,
parking and buildings
 
      (3)    No parking in front. No surface parking shall be permitted between
the front of the building and right-of-way.
      (4)   Access drives. Access drives and pavement for vehicular movement
shall be prohibited between the front of the building and the right-of-way.
      (5)   Driveways. Driveway or alley openings to public streets shall be
limited to one driveway per 200 feet of project frontage, and driveway or alley
openings shall not exceed 30 feet in width.
      (6)   Lighting. All parking lots shall be illuminated as necessary to
provide for safety and an aesthetic appropriate for the land use. All fixtures
shall be full cut-off and shall be shielded to prevent the light source from
being visible from adjacent residential uses. All lighting shall be served with
underground cable and underground served poles. Pole lighting shall be
compatible with the city street lights, with a maximum pole height of 24 feet
(in addition to the possibility of a two-foot city approved concrete base).
      (7)   Waivers. The Planning Commission may waive any of the foregoing
requirements in divisions (H)(1) through (H)(6) of this section, to the extent
otherwise not inconsistent with any other provisions of this code.
   (I)   Parking structures. Above-ground parking structures shall comply with
the following standards.
      (1)   Parking structures shall meet the minimum setback requirements for
principal buildings in the business district where they are located.
      (2)   Parking structures shall be located to the rear of the buildings on
the premises, unless this requirement is waived by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Parking structures shall be designed to architecturally screen the
view of parked cars and shall be visually similar in character and scale to the
adjacent buildings.
      (4)   Vehicle entries to parking structures shall be integrated into the
placement and design of adjacent buildings or oriented away from the primary
street frontage.
      (5)   One-half of the area occupied by supporting columns may be included
in determining the width and area of each adjacent parking space. The minimum
height above each parking space shall be seven feet.
   (J)   Loading space standards. There shall be provided at the time any
building is erected or structurally altered, off-street loading spaces in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   Before any building hereafter erected or structurally altered
within any business district, or any part of such building, is put to any use
that customarily requires the receiving or distributing of material or
merchandise by vehicle, at least one off-street space, suitable for truck use,
not less than ten feet in width and 25 feet in length, shall be provided within
or contiguous to such building.
      (2)   Unless waived or modified by the Planning Commission, where such a
use is located in a manner that a truck must back directly from a major street
into the loading space, a maneuvering space of not less than 49 feet shall be
provided.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.36)
§ 150.073 SETBACKS.
   (A)   In any business district which borders on a federal highway or a state
highway, there is required a setback of 30 feet from the street or highway
right-of-way. Within this 30-foot setback there shall also be provided a ten-
foot-wide planting strip.
   (B)   In any business district, which borders a county highway, there is
hereby required a setback of 18 feet from the street or highway right-of-way.
Within said 18-foot setback, there shall also be provided a ten-foot wide
planting strip.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.37)
§ 150.074 BUSINESS ONE - “THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (“MAIN STREET MADEIRA”)” (B-1).
   (A)   Permitted uses in Business One - Downtown District - Main Street
Madeira B-1. The following uses are permitted, subject to all other provisions
of this zoning code, in the Downtown District (B-1):
      (1)   Offices for professional use such as accountants, attorneys,
counseling, consulting, doctors, architects, dentists, engineers, opticians,
real estate, insurance and manufacturers’ representatives;
      (2)   Commercial uses such as retail, restaurants, bars, banks, media
studios and dry cleaners (where dry cleaning is not done on-site) and bakeries
employing less than six bakers;
      (3)   Libraries, museums, theaters;
      (4)   Daycares, preschools, nursery schools and childcare businesses;
      (5)   Brewery or brewpub that produces less than 5,000 barrels of beer a
year and that sells beer for on-premises consumption in the regular course of
business, a distillery that produces less than 2,000 gallons of alcoholic
spirits per year and that sells alcoholic spirts for on-premises consumption in
the regular course of business, and a wine manufacturer that produces less than
50,000 gallons of wine per year and that sells wine for on-premises consumption
in the regular course of business;
      (6)   Products retailed and sold on the premises, may be manufactured,
finished or assembled on the premises, provided that such products are of the
type sold primarily to the general or consumer public, at retail, and in
relatively small quantities per sale and no use that may be obnoxious or
offensive by reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes, water-
carried waste, noise, or vibration is made in connection therewith; and
      (7)   Public or commercial parking lots or structures, subject to §
150.072.
   (B)   Conditional uses in Business District B-1.
      (1)   Manufacturing uses provided they are accessory to a primary
permitted use (such as manufacture and sale of dental accessories for and to a
patient). As an accessory use, the manufacturing activities may not exceed the
total floor area allowed by the Ohio Building Code for an accessory use; and
      (2)   Residential units provided they are located on second or third
stories of mixed-use buildings and do not exceed 12 units per acre or more than
six units per structure. The minimum square footage for a single bedroom unit
shall be 900 square feet and 700 for a studio.
   (C)   Accessory uses in Business District B-1.
      (1)   Outdoor dining shall be permitted as an accessory use in B-1,
subject to §
150.071.
      (2)   Outdoor sales may be permitted for temporary periods seasonally or
on a daily basis with displays. Daily set up and indoor storage may be
required. Permanent outdoor sales areas shall be integrated into the building
and may include tables under awnings for the display of produce or goods.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.38)
§ 150.075 BUSINESS TWO - “MONTGOMERY ROAD ENTERPRISE DISTRICT” (B-2).
   (A)   Permitted uses in Business Two - Montgomery Road Enterprise District
B-2. The following uses are permitted, subject to all other provisions of this
zoning code, in a B-2 Business District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in B-1 with the exception of the conditional use
provided in §
150.074(B)(2);
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
150.074(A)(5); a brewery or brewpub that produces less than 10,000 barrels of
beer a year and that sells beer for on-premises consumption in the regular
course of business, a distillery that produces less than 10,000 gallons of
alcoholic spirits per year and that sells alcoholic spirts for on-premises
consumption in the regular course of business, and a wine manufacturer that
produces less than 50,000 gallons of wine per year and that sells wine for on-
premises consumption in the regular course of business; and
      (3)   Facilities for boarding only small animals that are not closer than
200 feet of any residence district.
   (B)   Accessory uses in Business District B-2.
      (1)   Outdoor dining shall be permitted as an accessory use in B-2,
subject to §
150.071.
      (2)   Outdoor sales shall be permitted as an accessory use in B-2,
subject to §
150.074(C)(2).
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.39)
§ 150.076 BUSINESS THREE - “MAKERS, RETAILERS AND AUXILIARY DISTRICT” (B-3).
   (A)   Permitted uses in Business Three - Makers, Retailers and Auxiliary
District B-3. The following uses are permitted, subject to all other provisions
of this zoning code, in a B-3 Business District:
      (1)   All use permitted in B-2; and
      (2)   The assembling, altering, converting, fabricating, finishing,
processing or treatment of a product utilizing a relatively clean and quiet
process that typically does not include or generate objectionable or hazardous
elements such as, but not limited to, smoke, odor, vibration, water pollution,
or dust and which is operating and storing products and materials in a
completely enclosed structure.
   (B)   Accessory uses in Business District B-3.
      (1)   Outdoor dining shall be permitted as an accessory use in B-3,
subject to §
150.071.
      (2)   Outdoor sales shall be permitted as an accessory use in B-3,
subject to §
150.074(C)(2).
   (C)   Prohibited uses. In B-3, no building, structure or premises shall be
used, and no building or structure shall be erected that is intended or
designed to be used, in whole or in part, for any of the uses specified in the
following:
Table 150-8
Table 150-8
(1)  Abattoirs and slaughterhouses or fertilizer manufacture;
(2)  Ammonia, bleaching powder and chlorine manufacture;
(3)  Asbestos manufacture;
(4)  Asphalt manufacture or refining;
(5)  Babbitt metal manufacture;
(6)  Bag cleaning;
(7)  Blast furnace, cupola, metal smelting furnace or metal melting furnace;
     Boiler shops, structural steel fabricating shops, steel car or locomotive shops,
(8)  railway repair shops and metal-working shops operating machine driven hammers or
     chisels;
     Brewer that produces 10,000 or more barrels of beer per year, distillery that
(9)  produces 10,000 or more gallons of alcoholic spirits per year, and a wine
     manufacturer that produces 50,000 or more gallons of wine per year;
(10) Brick manufacture;
(11) Carbon, lampblack or graphite manufacture;
(12) Celluloid or pyroxylin manufacture or explosive or flammable cellulose or
     pyroxylin or other explosive products manufacture;
     Coal tar manufacture, tar distillation or mineral dye manufacture, except as
(13) accessory to a permitted use, and upon condition that any emission of odor, dust,
     smoke, gas, fumes, water-carried waste, noise or vibration in connection
     therewith is so controlled as not to be obnoxious or offensive;   
(14) Coal yards, coke ovens or distillation of coal;
(15) Crematory;
(16) Creosote manufacture or treatment;
(17) Disinfectant or insecticide manufacture, preparation or compounding on a
     commercial scale;
(18) Dwellings, tourist homes, apartment hotels, hotels and motels;
(19) Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacture, except where dust or grit is not allowed to
     escape from the building;
(20) Enameling, japanning or lacquering, except:
     (a)   Where incidental to permitted uses;
     (b)   In repair operations in a garage; or
     (c)   Where used in jewelry, artwork, or novelty manufacture.
(21) Excelsior and fiber manufacture;
(22) Explosive or fireworks manufacture, or the storage or loading of explosives in
     bulk;
(23) Fat rendering, tallow, grease or lard refining, or manufacture of candles from
     fats;
(24) Felt manufacture, except where dust is not allowed to escape from the building;
(25) Fertilizer manufacture from organic material or bone distillation or compounding
     on a commercial scale;
(26) Flour milling;
(27) Foundry or forge shop, except as accessory to a permitted use;
(28) Gas manufacture;
(29) Glucose manufacture;
(30) Glue or size manufacture or processes involving recovery from fish or animal
     offal, or fish smoking or curing;
(31) Gypsum, cement, plastic or plaster of paris manufacture;
(32) Incineration, or reduction or dumping of offal, dead animals, garbage or refuse
     on a commercial basis, including loading and transfer platforms;
     Junk yards, dumps or scrap car storage, automobile junk yards, used automobile
(33) part yards and storage of wrecked automobiles and automobiles undergoing scrap or
     salvage operations;
(34) Lime or lime products manufacture;
(35) Match manufacture;
(36) Metal powder manufacture;
(37) Nitrating processes;
(38) Oil cloth, oiled clothing manufacture or the impregnation of any fabric by
     oxidizing oils;
(39) Ore reduction, or the smelting or corrosion of lead, aluminum, copper, iron, tin
     or zinc ores;
(40) Paint, oil, shellac, varnish or enamel manufacture;
(41) Penal or correctional institutions, or institutions for the care and treatment of
     drug or drink addicts or the insane;
(42) Petroleum refining;
(43) Poison manufacture, except for pharmaceutical or medical purposes;
(44) Potash refining;
(45) Pulp or paper manufacture;
(46) Radium or other radioactive material extraction;
(47) Rock crushing;
(48) Rolling or blooming mills;
(49) Rubber and gutta-percha manufacture from crude or scrap material, or the
     manufacture of articles therefrom or from balata;
(50) Salt works;   
(51) Sand blasting or cutting, except where the dust is controlled by effective
     devices;
(52) Sewage disposal plants;
(53) Soap, soda ash, caustic soda or washing compound manufacture;
(54) Starch, glucose or dextrin manufacture;
(55) Stock yards, stables, livery stables and riding academies or stables;
(56) Storage above ground of gasoline or other combustible liquids in quantities in
     excess of 60 gallons per type of liquid stored;
(57) Storage, baling or treatment of junk, iron, rags, bottles or scrap paper;
(58) Sugar refining;
     Sulphurous, sulphuric, nitric, picric, hydrochloric, or other corrosive acid
(59) manufacture, or use of any such acid (except as incidental to a manufacturing
     process), or the storage of any such acid for sale, shipment or distribution;
(60) Tar or asphalt roofing or waterproofing manufacture;
(61) The operation of nuclear reactors;
     The use of alpha ray, beta ray, gamma ray, X-ray or other radiation devices,
     except as an accessory to a permitted use and then only when properly shielded
(62) and controlled in accordance with standards as established from time to time by
     the United States, the United States Atomic Energy Commission, the state, the
     county, the city or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing
     authorities;
(63) Turpentine manufacture;
     Unenclosed storage of materials, goods, articles, machinery, equipment,
     appliances, vehicles (not including school buses), junk or other objects, unless
     such are required as an accessory to a permitted use and unless there exists and
(64) is maintained on the same premises, screening, as specified in division (C)(65)
     (b) of this table. A violator of this division may be permitted a maximum of six
     months, at the discretion of the City Manager, and after notification of the
     violation, to comply with any and all of the provisions of this division (C)(64);
(65) Vehicles and parking lots:
     (a)   The use of house trailers, mobile homes, mobile offices, mobile shops,
     automobile trailers, truck trailers, temporary structures and similar units
     (whether truck or chassis mounted or not), when occupied for residence,
     demonstration or business purposes (except when under construction or
     modification as part of a permitted manufacturing operation);
     (b)   Parking lots for the above and for trucks, truck trailers, horse trailers,
     motorcycle trailers, boat trailers, tractors of any type, road machinery, or
     similar units (with school buses expressly exempted), unless such are required as
     an accessory to a permitted use, in which event there shall exist and be
     maintained on the same premises a fence or wall, of such height (not less than
     six feet) and so made or constructed, and so placed, as to completely obscure
     such property from ordinary view at grade from the premises adjoining the
     premises on which such property is stored. To the extent, however, that such
     property is obscured by natural objects or topographical features or by
     structures, no such fence or wall shall be necessary. Any and all fences and/or
     walls shall be of commonly accepted type and construction for such applications
     and the type and construction shall be subject to approval of the City Manager.
     Appeals from the City Manager’s decision in this regard shall be to the Board of
     Zoning Appeals and the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be final.
     Fences and walls shall be maintained in good condition, and wherever possible the
     decorative side of such fence or wall shall face away from the objects obscured
     from view; and
     (c)   None of the above vehicles, mobile units or boats may be parked on the
     street for longer than necessary to load and/or unload and in no event longer
     than 24 hours at any one time.
(66) Wood distillation;
(67) Wool pulling, or scouring or shoddy manufacture; and
(68) General prohibition:
     (a)   Any use that may be hazardous, obnoxious, or offensive, by reason of the
     emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes, water-carried waste, refuse matter,
     noise or vibration in connection therewith, to a degree equaling or exceeding
     that to which any of the uses specifically prohibited in this division (C) would
     be hazardous, obnoxious or offensive; and
     (b)   The standard by which any use that is not specifically prohibited in this
     division (C) is to be judged for the purposes of this division (C)(68) shall be
     that of the use that is, of those that are specifically prohibited by this
     section, the least hazardous, obnoxious or offensive by reason of the factors
     listed above in this division (C)(68).
 
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.40)
THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1)
§ 150.090 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1); PURPOSES AND USES.
   (A)   The Downtown District (B-1) will maintain a “small town” character and
provide an aesthetically cohesive and pedestrian friendly environment. It is
the commercial and cultural heart of the city and is considered a destination
spot for residents and visitors, where a mix of businesses can thrive.
   (B)   The regulations will guide development and redevelopment and provide
the basis for consistency and objective decision making for Planning Commission
and staff when evaluating proposed development. The regulations will also
protect neighboring residential areas adjacent to B-1 so that these areas can
maintain their character. To achieve the purpose, measures will be taken to:
      (1)   Create a cohesive street view by setting buildings consistently
close to the street and without major gaps;
      (2)   De-emphasize the impact of surface parking by locating on-site
parking to the rear of buildings and by screening from Miami Avenue;
      (3)   Create visual interest with real and not faux, well-articulated
facades, including fenestration and floor demarcation;
      (4)   Reflect human scale through small and medium sized elements;
      (5)   Provide aesthetically pleasing lot-to-building proportions by
addressing lot coverage and floor area ratios and minimum building frontage
requirements for lots and blocks;
      (6)   Create a visually attractive color scheme with a palette of
building materials and finishes including traditional and modern high-quality
sustainable materials;
      (7)   Create pedestrian friendly and attractive signage; and
      (8)   Support private development improvements with high quality
streetscaping, including landscaping where appropriate, outdoor dining,
pedestrian scale furniture and lighting.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.41)
§ 150.091 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) BOUNDARIES.
   The Downtown District (B-1) is shown on the official zoning map.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.42)
§ 150.092 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) APPLICABILITY.
   All properties in the Downtown District (B-1) on the official zoning map of
the city shall be subject to the provisions of §§
150.090 through
150.111. Where the standards in these sections are in conflict with other
sections of the code, the standards in §§
150.090 through
150.111 shall control.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.43)
§ 150.093 REVIEW PROCEDURES IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   The Downtown District (B-1) regulations are intended to provide guidance to
property owners and city officials in the general aesthetic and functional
improvement of the city’s central business district. These regulations are
intended to promote community investment while not posing a financial burden on
property owners or the city. The following review procedure is established to
identify the extent to which a project must comply with the Downtown District
(B-1) regulations.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.44)
§ 150.094 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) PERMITTING.
   The City Manager or his or her designee has sole discretion to require that
a zoning permit be obtained before conducting any exterior work.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.45)
§ 150.095 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) PROCESS.
   (A)   Overview.
      (1)   Building and zoning permit required. Any modification, alteration
or enhancement of a site or structure exterior within the Downtown District (B-
1) shall require a building and zoning permit.
      (2)   Essentially minor projects. Projects designated by the City Manager
or his or her designee as “essentially minor” shall be granted a building and
zoning permit with administrative approval.
      (3)   Projects not identified as essentially minor. Any project not
designated as “essentially minor” by the City Manager or his or her designee
shall require the submission of the application to the Planning Commission for
review and approval.
      (4)   Procedure. All applications submitted under §§
150.090 through
150.111 of this chapter shall be reviewed in accordance with the following
procedure.
   (B)   Stage 1: initial application. A pre-application meeting is recommended
with the City Manager or his or her designee to discuss the submission
requirements for the initial application. Applicants for any projects in the
Downtown District (B-1) shall provide the following information and materials
to the City Manager as part of the applicant’s initial application:
      (1)   Site plan. A conceptual site plan at a minimum scale of one inch
equals 50 feet showing the size and location of all existing and proposed
structures, indicating dimensions and square footage. The site plan shall also
show the location of access and drive aisles, and the number of parking spaces;
      (2)   Photographs. Photographs or illustrations showing all four
elevations of existing and proposed buildings;
      (3)   Costs. A hard cost estimate for the new construction or
alterations;
      (4)   Building materials. An external finish building materials and
colors list, with samples or examples; and
      (5)   Other information and materials. Any other information or materials
deemed necessary by the City Manager to process the application.
   (C)   Stage 2: determination of essentially minor. The purpose of Stage 2 is
for the City Manager or his or her designee to determine whether the project’s
proposed construction (including renovation, repair, maintenance or other
similar activities therein) shall be designated “essentially minor”, which
shall require administrative review; or shall not be designated as “essentially
minor”, which shall require review by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Consultation. The City Manager or his or her designee shall review
the proposed construction and may consult with the ARO or the Chair of the
Planning Commission before he or she makes the decision whether the proposed
construction shall be designated essentially minor.
      (2)   Factors in making designation. The following factors shall be
weighed and considered in determining whether the construction is designated
essentially minor.
         (a)   Will the proposed construction significantly alter the exterior
appearance of the existing building or site design in one or more of the
following ways:
            1.   Height;
            2.   Setbacks;
            3.   Footprint;
            4.   Entrance;
            5.   Fenestration;
            6.   Envelope (volume);
            7.   Exterior materials or colors; and
            8.   Landscaping or parking.
         (b)   Will the construction essentially preserve the form and use of
the existing building and site?
         (c)   Is the estimated cost of the construction to the exterior of the
building and site sufficient to justify that the modifications be compatible
with the aesthetic vision of the Downtown District (B-1) regulations?
      (3)   Requirements for essentially minor designation. For the City
Manager or his or her designee to determine that a project is essentially
minor, the City Manager or his or her designee must find that:
         (a)   The construction, when completed, will have primarily preserved
the use, function, form, scale and accessory uses of the property that existed
prior to the construction;
         (b)   The construction will not increase the dimensions of a building
or structure by more than 40% of the square footage of the existing building or
structure, exclusive of the alteration or expansion;
         (c)   The cost of the exterior renovation of the structure does not
exceed 50% of the assessed value of the building or structure to be altered,
prior to the renovations; and
         (d)   The alterations do not require dimensional variances from the
regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   Essentially minor - certification.
         (a)   Issuance. If the City Manager or his or her designee determines
that the construction is essentially minor, he or she shall so certify in
writing. Construction designated essentially minor shall be granted an
essentially minor certificate. Once construction of a project has been
certified essentially minor, the applicant may apply for a building and zoning
permit, subject to administrative review, without requesting approval of the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   Five year requirement.
            1.   A file containing the certificate, copies of the proposed
construction, and staff comments and recommendations shall be assembled and
retained for not less than five years after completion of the proposed
construction.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall be presumed that
any additional construction proposed by the same owner within five years of an
essentially minor certification will not qualify as essentially minor, unless
the City Manager grants an exception.
            3.   The intent of this presumption is to prevent or discourage
circumvention of ultimate design guidelines of this chapter through the
cumulative effect of multiple minor improvements.
      (5)   Not designated as essentially minor - Planning Commission review.
All construction not designated as essentially minor shall require Planning
Commission review and approval prior to the issuance of a building and zoning
permit.
   (D)   Stage 3: final application for a building and zoning permit.
         (a)   Requirements. All final applications for building and zoning
permits shall include:
            1.   A land survey;
            2.   A site plan depicting the exact dimensions of the site and all
buildings, structures and parking areas;
            3.   A landscaping plan showing the location and type of all
proposed landscape areas, plantings and screening/buffering;
            4.   A signage plan showing the location, size and type of all
signs, illustrations or elevations showing the proposed appearance of all
signs;
            5.   A lighting plan showing the location, type, height, intensity
and photometric of all lighting;
            6.   Building plans showing general dimensions, materials and uses;
            7.   Exterior building elevations showing the proposed appearance
of the building, including a proposed materials list; and
            8.   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Manager or
his or her designee, Architectural Review Officer or Planning Commission to
determine compliance with this chapter.
         (b)   Exception. In the case of a project with an essentially minor
certificate, the City Manager or his or her designee may waive any of the above
submission requirements that he or she deems unnecessary for the comprehensive
review of the proposed project.
   (E)   Stage 4: review of application and issuance of permit.
      (1)   Dimensional review.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for proposed construction within
the Downtown District (B-1), the City Manager or his or her designee shall
review and determine dimensional compliance with this chapter. This shall
include identification of any proposed reconstruction of existing buildings
that are dimensionally nonconforming. Variances that are identified shall be
set forth in a report to Planning Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals.
The notice and process of review shall be the same as required for other
dimensional variances.
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall weigh and consider the Duncan
Factors for each dimensional variance identified.
      (2)   If certified essentially minor. In the event the City Manager or
his or her designee certifies construction of a project essentially minor, the
application shall be reviewed for specific compliance with applicable sections
of this chapter and deemed in compliance by the City Manager or his or her
designee, prior to the issuance of a building and zoning permit. If the City
Manager or his or her designee certifies construction of a project essentially
minor and determines that the application is in specific compliance with
applicable sections of this chapter, the City Manager or his or her designee
may issue the building and zoning permit to the applicant.
      (3)   Planning Commission review. In the event the City Manager or his or
her designee does not find an application to be essentially minor or in
conformance with the standards of this chapter, the City Manager or his or her
designee shall make the determination that the application must be reviewed and
approved by Planning Commission.
         (a)   Evaluation. Application to and review by the Planning Commission
shall be evaluated in the same manner whether or not an essentially minor
certification has been sought (and denied). The Planning Commission shall
review the application for appropriateness and equivalency to the intent and
purpose of this chapter. The Planning Commission may grant an equivalency or
modification of a requirement if it makes a finding that the effect of the
proposed submission is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
The equivalency finding shall be part of the official record of approval and
issuance of the certificate of appropriateness and the building and zoning
permit.
         (b)   Design review of aesthetic standards. The regulations for the
Downtown District (B-1) include both dimensional and flexible aesthetic
standards. Review for substantial or equivalent compliance with both types of
standards shall be required for the issuance of the building and zoning permit
by the Planning Commission.
            1.   The Planning Commission shall serve as a Design Review Board
and evaluate the proposal for reasonable compliance with the overall aesthetic
guidelines.
            2.   The standard of compliance is intended to be “reasonable”
rather than “strict” to allow for design review that is flexible for both the
applicant and city to achieve a product that is appropriate for the district.
            3.   The standard of compliance with the aesthetic guidelines
should be the determination of the Planning Commission stating that the
proposed construction achieves a significant compatibility with the aesthetic
guidelines set forth in the Downtown District (B-1) regulations.
            4.   The Planning Commission should find that the proposed
construction avoids a direct conflict with the overall images, impressions and
net impact of buildings and accessory structures, including parking,
landscaping and lighting described in the Downtown District (B-1) regulations.
            5.   The Planning Commission shall refrain from imposing additional
aesthetic requirements if the proposed construction does substantially resemble
the examples set forth in the Downtown District (B-1) regulations. Aesthetic
guidelines are inherently subjective and, therefore, the Planning Commission
shall endeavor to adhere to the guidelines as they are substantially expressed
in these regulations.
            6.   It is recognized that it is unlikely and unreasonable to
require a building to comply with all examples in the regulations because the
regulations anticipate variation in final appearances (eclectic) from building
to building.
         (c)   Finding. The Planning Commission shall make finding that the
application conforms in all pertinent respects to the requirements contained in
this chapter.
         (d)   Approval. The approval by Planning Commission shall not be
construed to imply compliance with all other local, state, and federal laws and
regulations. An affirmative vote of approval of the majority of the Planning
Commission members may determine whether the proposed construction complies
with the aesthetic guidelines of the district or has been found to be
equivalent by Planning Commission.
      (4)   Contingent-approval permitted. In circumstances where an applicant
needs a variance from the requirements of this code, the Planning Commission
may provide contingent-approval of a final application. Such contingent-
approval shall mean their approval of the final application is subject to the
applicant obtaining any required variance(s) from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
If the Planning Commission provides contingent-approval of a final application
and the Board of Zoning Appeals subsequently denies the applicant’s requested
variance(s), said denial shall constitute a rejection of the final application.
   (F)   Appeals. Pursuant to this section, if the Planning Commission, City
Manager or ARO deny an applicant’s request for approval of an application or an
amendment to a previously-approved application, such applicant may appeal the
decision denying their request to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing the decision must provide
notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the Planning Commission,
City Manager or ARO and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the
Planning Commission’s provision of written notification of its denial to the
applicant.
      (2)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public
hearing evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review applied by the
Planning Commission, City Manager or ARO to the initial application, within 60
days of receiving applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.46)
§ 150.096 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS.
   The purpose of the Downtown District (B-1) architectural standards is to
promote the design and construction of buildings that support and enhance the
eclectic character associated with the city, through building scale and mass,
entries and storefronts, fenestration, exterior materials and architectural
details.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.47)
§ 150.097 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) ARCHITECTURAL STYLES.
   Although the Downtown District (B-1) is to remain eclectic and no specific
architectural style is required for new buildings in the district, a preference
for traditional styles is indicated. Overly modern design is felt to be out of
context with the small town character of the city. Architectural styles, which
should be referenced as appropriate, are illustrated in Figure 6 through Figure
12 in Table 150-9 below.
Table 150-9
Architectural Styles
Table 150-9
Architectural Styles
English Colonial
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4290.png]
   Figure 6: A modern interpretation of an early English colonial appropriate in the
city
Neo-Eclectic Commercial
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4292.png]
   Figure 7: This building employs federal styling and details
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4294.png]
   Figure 8: Neo-mansard post 1960's commercial
Neo-Eclectic Commercial
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4296.png]
 
Tudor Revival
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4298.png]
   Figure 10: Example employing Tudor revival
Colonial Revival
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4300.png]
   Figure 11: Example employing colonial revival styling similar to “Cape Cod” style
Craftsman Style
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/IMAGES/0-
0-0-4302.png]
   Figure 12: Example of Craftsman Style
 
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.48)
§ 150.098 BUILDING SCALE AND MASSING IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Character.
      (1)   Height and width. The relationship of a building’s height to its
apparent width and its horizontal and vertical articulation are major
contributing factors to the overall character of the Downtown District (B-1).
      (2)   Architecture. Buildings within the Downtown District (B-1) should
respect the architectural character of surrounding buildings.
   (B)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to all buildings in the
Downtown District (B-1).
      (1)   Building height. All buildings in the district shall not exceed
three stories in height and 45 feet.
      (2)   Horizontal articulation.
         (a)   A building’s vertical and horizontal dimensions should be
generally in proportion to each other, without over-emphasis of either
dimension.
         (b)   Horizontally long buildings shall be visually broken up through
the use of recesses or setback variations, architectural detailing, various
roof heights, and application of compatible building materials to cause the
facade to appear as a series of proportionally correct masses. The building’s
articulation should establish a human scale and provide visual rhythm and
interest. (See Figure 13.)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4304.png]
 
   Figure 13: These three elevations illustrate proper and improper
articulation and proportions for buildings in the district
         (c)    Placement of the common horizontal elements (e.g., cornice line
and window height, width and spacing) on new or infill structures shall be
influenced by neighboring structures.
      (3)    Vertical articulation. The articulation of a base, middle and top
of the building shall be required.
         (a)   A recognizable base may consist of, but not be limited to,
thicker walls, ledges or sills, integrally-textured material such as stone or
masonry, integrally-colored and patterned materials such as smooth-finished
stone or tiles, lighter or darker colored material from the body of the
building, mullions or panels. The use of bulkheads and water table trims are
strongly encouraged.
         (b)   The middle or body of the building will constitute the majority
of the facade area and may consist of, but is not limited to, the primary
exterior finish material, fenestration, and belt or soldier courses.
         (c)   A recognizable top may consist of, but is not limited to,
dimensional cornice treatments; variation in masonry patterns or materials or
differently colored materials; visible roof forms, including gables, sloping
roof with overhangs and brackets, stepped parapets, chimney projections,
cupolas and dormers; or aligned openings and articulations.
         (d)   Single story buildings shall be articulated and include
fenestration and detailing that is consistent with the horizontal and vertical
proportions of the building. (See Figure 14.)
         (e)   Single story building shall be a minimum of 15 feet in height.
         (f)    Single story buildings may present the appearance of a
clerestory. (See Figure 15.)
         (g)    Multi-story buildings are encouraged.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4306.png]
   Figure 14: This building shows how a tall, single story building can be well
articulated through the use of tall windows; this approach is preferred over
the use of a faux upper story
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4308.png]
   Figure 15: Image shows the use of clerestory windows
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.49)
§ 150.099 ROOF FORMS IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   The roof types of buildings in the Downtown District (B-1) shall be designed
in conformance with the following regulations.
   (A)   For approximately every front 60 feet of building facade a variation
of roof type is encouraged to reduce visual monotony and assist in development
of a human scale environment.
   (B)   Gabled roofs are encouraged; however, other roof types may be approved
by the Planning Commission on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   When gabled roofs are used, the design of the roof pitch may vary, but
should not be less than one-quarter of the building height as measured from the
grade line to the gutter.
   (D)   When flat roofs are used, decorative cornices and parapet roof lines
shall be incorporated.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.50)
§ 150.100 ENTRIES AND STORE FRONT FACADES IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   The building entrances in the Downtown District (B-1) shall be designed in
conformance with the following regulations.
   (A)   When a commercial building has frontage on Miami Avenue, Laurel Avenue
or Camargo Road, the building entrances should face onto Miami Avenue, Laurel
Avenue or Camargo Road, respectively; provided, however, that if a commercial
building has frontage on Miami Avenue and Laurel Avenue or Miami Avenue and
Camargo Road, the building entrances should face onto Miami Avenue.
   (B)   When a commercial building has an upper story retail business and has
frontage on Miami Avenue, Laurel Avenue or Camargo Road, it is strongly
encouraged that access to such upper story retail business shall be from Miami
Avenue, Laurel Avenue or Camargo Road, respectively.
   (C)   When a new road is proposed for interior circulation and meets the
streetscape standards as detailed in the city’s streetscape plan, buildings may
be oriented to face onto these streets and the entrance may also be oriented to
these streets.
   (D)   In all cases the main entrance of the building shall be easily
identifiable, and should provide an introductory statement for a building using
architectural articulation or landscaping or a combination of both.
   (E)   Entrances should be designed to allow individual business to present a
clear image without compromising the sense of unity of the facade or
development.
   (F)   On corner lots, the building’s primary entrance may be angled to
present access to both frontages.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.51)
§ 150.101 FENESTRATION (WINDOWS AND DOORS) IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Windows and doors shall be proportional to the building facade in
which they are installed. Vertically proportioned windows which relate to human
scale are preferred, but horizontally proportioned windows may be used for
display purposes on lower floors. On upper floors, windows shall be divided
into vertically proportioned components using mullions and muttons. (See
Figure 16.)
   (B)   On the front facade, similar sized windows shall be placed in a
regular pattern with the same top and bottom alignment.
   (C)   Window openings shall indicate floor levels and shall not occur
between floors.
   (D)   A bulkhead constructed of brick, stone, wood, fiber cement siding or
metal panels shall be required at a minimum height of 18 inches from grade.
   (E)   Transparent windows or doors shall occupy a minimum of 50% of the area
of a primary facade between two and ten feet from the grade at the sidewalk.
(See
Figure 17 for method to calculate area.)
   (F)   Opaque glazing or mirrored glazing shall be prohibited.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4310.png]
 
   Figure 16: This illustrates how the character and appearance of a building
is impacted by the scale of the window openings; traditional proportions are
preferred in the district
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4312.png]
   Figure 17: Window or door openings are calculated from the area of the
primary facade between two and ten feet from grade; the dashed rectangle shows
this area; the grey rectangles represent 50% of this area
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.52)
§ 150.102 EXTERIOR FINISH MATERIALS AND COLORS IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   The character of the Downtown District (B-1) is enhanced by the use of
quality building materials that reflect the desired image of the city. The
following standards apply to the exterior of all buildings in the Downtown
District (B-1).
   (A)   Generally. Buildings shall be finished with high-quality, low
maintenance, durable, sustainable, and attractive natural or manufactured
materials and shall not include any prohibited materials as specified in this
section.
   (B)   Materials. The use of exterior building and finishing materials in the
B-1 District shall be in conformance with the following regulations.
      (1)   Permitted primary materials.
         (a)   Buildings in the B-1 District shall have a primary exterior
covering of brick, stone, natural wood clapboard, wood board and batten, wood
shingles, or modern manufactured materials that create the appearance of the
materials listed above, except as prohibited herein.
         (b)   The permitted primary material must make up at least 50% of the
exterior covering on the primary facades of a building.
         (c)   The total area covered by permitted primary materials shall be
calculated from the area of the visible plane measuring the area from grade to
upper building limits, exclusive of the area occupied by visible roof surfaces.
(See
Figure 18 for example of material coverage calculations.)
      (2)   Accent materials.
         (a)   Buildings in the Downtown District (B-1) may incorporate any of
the permitted primary materials as an accent.
         (b)   Accent materials shall be applied to a maximum of 25% of the
facade surface.
         (c)   Accent materials shall include, but not be limited to, brick
veneers, cast or wrought metal, decorative concrete masonry units, glazed brick
or glass tiles, metal trims of flashings (aluminum, steel, copper, brass, and
iron), PVC (poly vinyl carbonate), stucco (traditionally applied), terra-cotta,
and tilt-up architectural concrete.
         (d)   Detailing, trim, windows, doors and glazing may constitute the
remaining area of the facade not occupied by the primary or accent material.
      (3)   Conditional or new materials. Modern manufactured materials that
create the appearance of permitted materials such as fiber cement products,
architectural panels or cast stone may be approved by the Planning Commission
on a case-by-case basis as a primary or accent building material. Other
materials not listed as prohibited may be approved by the Planning Commission
on a case-by-case basis as a primary or accent building material.
      (4)   Prohibited materials. Exterior covering materials that are
prohibited include, but are not limited to, vinyl, aluminum or steel siding,
exterior insulated finish system (EIFS), corrugated steel and highly reflective
materials such as mirrored glass or chrome, or fully glazed facades. Concrete
masonry unit (cinder block) is prohibited on a primary facade.
      (5)   Colors.
         (a)   Permitted colors. The preferred base colors used on new or
rehabilitated buildings should be the natural color of the material in the case
of brick or stone. In the case of painted or other synthetic materials of a
neutral muted palette, deeply saturated hues or muted pastels and whites should
be used. Brighter, more vivid colors should be reserved for accents and trims.
         (b)   Prohibited colors. No fluorescent, neon, day-glow or reflective
colors shall be used.
      (6)   Combinations of materials and colors. Each building facade shall be
limited to a combination of one primary material and two accent materials;
additional materials may be used for trims based on the material most
appropriate for the trim’s location and purpose. When surfaces are painted,
colored, or otherwise do not correspond to the material, each building facade
shall be limited to a combination of no more than four coordinated or
complementary color schemes.
      (7)   Transitions of materials.
         (a)   Transition from one material to another on the same facade shall
be completed either with appropriate trim or as an accent with variations such
as quoining or reveals, based on material thickness.
         (b)   Transition in materials from one facade to another shall be made
at an inside corner or extended a minimum of five feet onto the secondary
facade. (See
Figure 19.)
   Examples of Coverages for Accent Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4314.png]
       This building facade represents a total of 1,557 square feet excluding
the roof area, but including the gable.
       The percentages of the total facade area are:
 
5% = 78 square feet
10% = 156 square feet
15% = 234 square feet
25% = 390 square feet
 
   Figure 18: This figure illustrates how to calculate the percentage of the
facade dedicated to an accent material. Accent materials shall be applied to no
more than 25% of the facade surfaces
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4316.png]
   Figure 19: Appropriate transition of materials
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6- 14-2021, § 150.53)
§ 150.103 AWNINGS OR FABRIC CANOPIES IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Use. The use of awnings or fabric canopies on buildings in the
Downtown District (B-1) can soften and add vibrancy to the pedestrian
environment along the sidewalks and enhance the entrance while offering
protection from the elements.
   (B)   Standards. The purpose of the following standards is to coordinate the
appearance and application of awnings and canopies with the general character
of the Downtown District (B-1) and provide guidance for the appropriate
materials.
      (1)   Awnings or fabric canopies shall be made of canvas or other durable
non-glossy outdoor grade fabric in permitted colors listed in §
150.102(B)(5). Awning color should be coordinated with the color scheme of the
building. In general, solid color awnings should be used on buildings with
intricate and abundant architectural detailing, while striped awnings might be
utilized on simpler buildings to introduce color and vitality.
      (2)   Awnings should be designed to fit the storefront opening and
emphasize the building’s proportions.
      (3)   Where possible, awnings should be aligned with others on the block,
particularly the bottom edge.
      (4)   Awnings may extend over the public sidewalk, but must provide
unobstructed vertical clearance to at least eight feet from grade.
      (5)   Awnings may not extend beyond the curb or obstruct the view at
intersections.
      (6)   Awnings should be mounted at the top edge to align with the top of
the transoms when present.
      (7)   No signage shall be applied to the body (or sloped portion) of the
awning; the valence may be used for simple signage such as the name or address
of the business located in the subject building.
      (8)   Backlit awnings or canopies are prohibited.
      (9)   Metal awnings shall be prohibited.
      (10)   All canvas or fabric awnings shall be installed and maintained in
a manner consistent with good maintenance of the structure. If awning coverings
deteriorate and are not replaced within six weeks of notification for
maintenance from the city, they shall be removed.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.54)
§ 150.104 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Rooftop equipment. Roof-mounted mechanical or utility equipment shall
be screened from streets and adjacent residential properties. The method of
screening should be architecturally integrated with the structure in terms of
materials, color, shape and size. Equipment should be screened by solid
building elements (e.g., parapet wall, cupola, chimneys or other elements),
instead of after-the-fact, add-on screening such as wood or metal slats,
whenever possible.
   (B)   Utility housing.
      (1)   Utility housing shall be installed on the rear of structures
whenever possible.
      (2)   All utility housings, junctions and other exterior duct work or
conduits attached to a structure shall be painted or permanently colored to
match the basic building material color on which they are located to reduce the
impact of its appearance unless it can successfully be integrated with other
trim or detailing in a manner that enhances the architectural style of the
structure.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.55)
§ 150.105 THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1) SITE STANDARDS PURPOSE.
   Buildings shall be consistently placed to establish a street wall, sustain
small front yards as a unique attribute of the city, and provide a pedestrian
friendly walkable environment. The purpose of the following site standards is
to provide guidance for the lot dimensions, layout and placement of site
features in a manner that is consistent with this vision.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.56)
§ 150.106 SETBACKS AND BUILD-TO LINES IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Setbacks and build-to lines are established to provide adequate access
to various parts of individual properties, to provide adequate space for
ingress and egress, and to establish a consistent street wall within the
district.
 
Table 150-10
                 Front Yard           Side Yard           Rear Yard
                 A build-to line      Minimum 0 ft. from  Minimum 5 ft. from
Building (15,000 shall be established side lot line; or   rear lot line; or
sq. ft. or less) 5 ft. from and       minimum 10 ft. from minimum 10 ft. from
                 parallel to the      residential zone    a single-family
                 right-of-way.                            residential zone
Parking          Prohibited in front  Minimum 2 ft. from  Minimum 2 ft. from
                 yard                 any side lot line   any rear lot line
 
   (B)   The Planning Commission may waive setback requirements for partial
modifications to existing structures.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.57)
§ 150.107 LARGE BUILDING EXCEPTION IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   Buildings with a footprint in excess of 15,000 square feet may be permitted
in the district provided that the site and building meet the following
criteria:
   (A)   The large building is located on a site in excess of one acre;
   (B)   The building’s footprint does not exceed 75% of the lot on which it is
located;
   (C)   The building is appropriately articulated per the requirements of this
chapter;
   (D)   Off-street loading areas are provided for the building;
   (E)   The building and any parking are screened from the public right-of-way
by smaller buildings that address the street and meet the maximum five-foot
front yard setback;
   (F)   The loading, parking and trash dumpsters are adequately screened from
adjacent residential uses; and
   (G)   The building meets all other building design standards required in the
Downtown District (B-1) under this chapter.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.58)
§ 150.108 CORNER LOTS AND SIGHT TRIANGLES IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Building setbacks on corner lots may be modified to meet County
Engineer required visibility at street intersections.
   (B)   However, angled building corners, which present an entrance to both
frontages, are the preferred approach to excessive setbacks for preserving
intersection visibility within the Downtown District (B-1).
   (C)   In cases where the sidewalks are wide enough to allow for a clear
sight triangle, no additional setbacks may be needed.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.59)
§ 150.109 VEHICULAR ACCESS IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   One vehicular access point not to exceed 24 feet in width shall be
permitted on each lot of record regardless of total width.
   (B)   Twelve additional feet of width for vehicular access shall be
permitted for each 40 feet of lot frontage in excess of 80 feet on Miami
Avenue, Laurel Avenue or Camargo Road.
   (C)   No drive aisle or curb cut access point shall exceed 24 feet in width.
   (D)   No more than two access points (a maximum 24 feet in width) or curb
cuts shall be permitted for any individual property.
   (E)   When possible, access to parking or loading areas is encouraged to be
provided via an alley or Railroad Avenue because it can improve circulation and
reduce the impact of curb cuts on pedestrian movement along public sidewalks.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.60)
§ 150.110 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Appearance. Landscaping should soften the appearance of the built
environment and assist in stormwater runoff by providing pervious surfaces.
   (B)   Character. Landscaping and screening should be compatible with the
character of the district and buffer residential uses from the more intense
site activity on commercial properties.
      (1)   Screening. Side and rear yard screening when adjacent to
residential use. When parking or loading areas are located adjacent to a
residential district property line, an opaque fence or wall or fully opaque
hedge of evergreens at least six feet in height and within two years of
maturity shall be provided to block headlights from residential uses.
      (2)   Ground mounted equipment and service structures. All service
structures shall be screened from public view and/or adjacent residential
areas. For the purposes of this section, service structures shall include, but
not be limited to, loading docks, propane tanks, dumpsters and electrical
transformers, utility vaults extending above grade, and other equipment or
elements providing service to a building or a site.
         (a)   Structures may be grouped together; however, screening height
shall be based upon the tallest of the structures.
         (b)   A curb is required to protect and contain a trash dumpster or
waste collection units.
         (c)   Screening options are a continuous planting, hedge, fence, wall
or earthen mound.
         (d)   Screening must enclose any service structure on all sides unless
such structure must be frequently moved or accessed, in which case screening on
all but one side is required.
         (e)   Dumpsters shall be screened by a brick or stone wall with wooden
doors for access.
         (f)   The Planning Commission may approve other types of screening
materials on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   Landscaping materials and maintenance. The proposed landscape
materials should complement the existing trees on site or on adjacent sites if
none exist on site, as well as the development’s general design and
architecture. These regulations apply to all landscaping and landscaping
materials installed as part of the requirements of these standards.
         (a)   Types. Plant types shall be approved by city staff, the
Architectural Review Officer or Planning Commission.
         (b)   Plants. Plant materials used in conformance with provision of
this chapter shall conform to the standards of the American Association of
Nurserymen and shall have passed any inspections required under state
regulations. Artificial plants are prohibited. All plant materials shall be
living and shall meet the following requirements.
            1.   Deciduous trees. Trees which normally shed their leaves in the
fall shall have a minimum caliper of two inches, and five feet tall at
installation, measured at finished grade, and be species of small, medium or
large maturity size in areas where there is not a visibility concern.
               a.   In areas with visibility concerns, the trees shall be
species of medium to large maturity size, which can eventually maintain five
feet of branch free trunk with a minimum two inch caliper.
               b.   Trees of species with roots that are known to cause damage
to public roadways or other public works shall not be planted closer than 15
feet to such public works, unless the tree root system is completely contained
within a barrier for which the minimum interior containing dimensions shall be
five feet square and five feet deep and for which the construction requirements
shall be four inches thick, reinforced concrete.
               c.   Prohibited trees shall include any species prohibited on
the city’s official planting species lists.
            2.   Evergreen trees. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five
feet high at the time of planting, measured from the top mass of the tree (not
the tallest leader). In areas with visibility concerns, the trees shall
eventually maintain six feet of branch free trunk.
         (c)   Maintenance and installation.
            1.   All landscaping materials shall be installed in a sound,
workmanship-like manner and according to accepted, good construction and
planting procedures. The owner of the property shall be responsible for the
continued proper maintenance of all landscaping materials and shall keep them
in a proper, neat and orderly appearance, free from refuse, debris and weeds at
all times. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within one
year or by the next planting period, whichever comes first. Other defective
landscape material shall be replaced or repaired within three months of notice
from city.
            2.   No required plantings shall be removed by the property owner
or agent of the owner unless the planting materials are found to be hazardous,
unhealthy or dead by the city or its agents. If any healthy, mature or
established plantings as required by this chapter are removed at the discretion
of the owner or his or her agent, they shall be replaced by the owner with a
similar sized planting to those that were removed to maintain a consistent and
mature appearance of plantings in that area.
            3.   Hardwood mulch is permitted, but no stone, sand or rubber is
permitted.
         (d)   Preservation of existing landscape materials. Existing landscape
material shall be shown on the required landscape plan. Any material in
satisfactory condition may be used to satisfy these requirements in whole or in
part when, in the opinion of the city’s approval authority, such materials meet
the requirements and achieve the objectives of this chapter.
      (4)   Fencing and walls. Fences and walls can be used in conjunction with
plant material to provide visual breaks between properties, buffer various uses
and enhance the character of a development.
         (a)   Types.
            1.   Fencing shall not interfere with sight visibility.
            2.   Privacy fencing or walls (100% opacity from grade to six feet)
may be used as a screen between abutting commercial/industrial sites.
            3.   Decorative or privacy fencing may be used as a screen between
commercial/ industrial sites and abutting residential sites.
            4.   Fences running parallel to a right-of-way in commercial areas
shall be 40% or more transparent such as wrought iron or picket or post and
rail type fencing or less than 40 inches in height.
         (b)   Permitted materials.
            1.   Walls shall be constructed of brick or stone (veneers are
permitted) to match or coordinate with the building materials on the primary
building.
            2.   Fencing shall be made from natural materials. Wood fences
shall be natural or have a transparent color stain finish. The finished side of
the fence shall face the adjacent property or residential area. Post and rail
or other partially transparent fencing may be used in conjunction with
vegetative landscaping to create definition to the site.
            3.   When landscaping within the city right-of-way is required for
the owner/developer to achieve minimum streetscape requirements, an
encroachment agreement between the city and landowner/developer shall be
executed and recorded requiring the landowner/developer to maintain the
landscaping and waiving any city liability.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.61)
§ 150.111 LIGHTING IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the lighting standards is to coordinate and unify
the overall lighting appearance of nonresidential developments with regard to
aesthetic and technical aspects.
      (2)   Site lighting components should be visually interesting and serve
not only to illuminate the parking and drive areas, but also to enhance the
aesthetic appearance of the site.
      (3)   Fixtures shall be of a design complementary to the intent of the
Downtown District (B-1) standards.
      (4)   Photometrics must be submitted as part of the site plan
requirements.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   All developments with five or more parking spaces are required to
provide exterior lighting for all exterior doorways, pedestrian pathways and
vehicular use areas.
      (2)   All developments with less than five parking spaces shall provide
exterior lighting at all exterior doorways.
      (3)   All light shall be focused and directed so as to not shine directly
into adjacent properties.
   (C)   Illumination.
      (1)   (a)   A minimum average illumination of 0.5 footcandles shall be
maintained when measured at grade in all vehicular use areas and pedestrian
pathways.
         (b)   Actual site measurement compliance shall not drop below this
minimum.
      (2)   The illumination ratio (minimum to maximum) shall not exceed ten to
one.
      (3)   A maximum illumination of 0.2 footcandles shall be maintained at
the property line of adjacent properties.
   (D)   Maximum height. The height of the light pole installed on a property
shall be determined by the size of the building as follows:
      (1)   Lighting fixtures for a building with a footprint of less than
15,000 square feet shall not exceed the height of the building or 15 feet,
including the base, whichever is less; and
      (2)   Lighting fixtures for a building with a footprint of equal to or
greater than 15,000 square feet shall not exceed the height of the building or
25 feet, including base, whichever is less.
   (E)   Fixture types. The style of the adjacent development’s light fixtures
and luminaries should be taken into consideration on all developments to
promote consistency throughout the city.
      (1)   All pole mounted light fixtures shall be a traditional or
historically compatible style using a post type or gooseneck style arm on
decorative poles with a decorative base comparable to the fixtures used along
Miami Avenue.
      (2)   Wall pack light fixtures should be compatible with the light pole
fixtures and comply with the maximum spill over illumination requirements.
      (3)   Luminaries shall be LED (light-emitting diode) lights. The design
shall be refractive or opaque.
      (4)   No colored or flashing lights shall be used.
      (5)   All exterior lighting used to light vehicular areas and pedestrian
pathways shall be decorative post with acorn or post and arm construction of
cast aluminum, cast iron, or cast steel. If posts are to be directly mounted in
parking areas without buffers, cast iron or steel poles shall be used for
durability and safety.
      (6)   Lighted bollards may be used to illuminate pedestrian paths.
      (7)   Street lights required in the right-of-way to extend streetscape
improvements, as part of new development or redevelopment, shall exactly match
the post and luminaries (materials and color) in the existing Miami Avenue
streetscape.
   (F)   Shielding.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting for nonresidential uses shall be located,
screened or shielded so adjacent lots located in residential districts are not
directly illuminated.
      (2)   On lots abutting residentially used or zoned properties, perimeter
fixtures must use full cut-off fixtures, or house-side shielding may be
required on the residential property side of the lighting fixture. This
provision applies to both pole and building mounted fixtures.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.62)
ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAYS
§ 150.125 TRANSITIONAL OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   (a)   1.   It is the intent of the Special Public Interest
Transitional District (hereinafter referred to as “T District”) to designate a
sensitive transitional area of the city for certain types of controlled
development, which development is consistent with the goals of the city as set
forth herein. The request for approval of a Transitional District development
plan within a T District may only be approved if it is initiated or authorized
by the property owner(s).
            2.   The area of T District is set forth on Exhibit A, attached to
Ordinance 98-43, passed February 8, 1999.
         (b)   Contrary to conventional development control strictly by type of
use, the T District provides a more flexible instrument which governs
development by the criteria of intensity and impacts of a use rather than its
general nature. The meaning of USE is intended to encompass both the activity
intended and permitted to take place on the property, as well as the
improvements, including structures, landscaping, mounding, detention and
drainage areas and parking, intended or planned for the site. As an alternative
to the use of a property strictly in accordance with the underlying district
designated for the parcel, this allows for different types of compatible land
use within the zone designated as a T District.
         (c)   The creation of the T District is meant to identify an area
(Exhibit A) within the city in which the Planning Commission may approve,
approve with modifications or deny specific detailed plans proposed by the
property owner (the Transitional District development plan) which meets the
criteria established for the T District.
      (2)   The specific purposes of the T District are:
         (a)   To provide adequate buffering for the protection of residential
districts from the adverse impacts of less restrictive uses which may be
permitted in a T District;
         (b)   To protect and enhance the environmental, cultural, aesthetic
and historic assets of the community through careful planning in the design and
arrangement of buildings, activities, preservation of open or green space and
the optimal utilization of natural site features;
         (c)   To permit the creation of a transitional zone within the city
that will provide for the orderly transition from an existing Residence R-
2 District to the south to less restrictive districts located to the north of
the Transitional District. This must be done in a manner that promotes harmony
within the T District as well as providing transition between surrounding
districts; and
         (d)   To reconcile the existing different uses that are in place at
the inception of the T District so that the long term value of the property
within the district is enhanced, without unreasonable harm occurring to the
existing activities. Consideration shall be given to permitting reasonable
residential use of the existing dwellings to continue.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      T DISTRICT. The district designated by Council on the zoning map and
attached to Ordinance 98-43, passed February 8, 1999 as Exhibit A and adopted
in accordance with this code. The T DISTRICT is an overlay district which is
superimposed upon the designated areas within the zoning district, and which
shall be identified on the zoning map by a prefix of “T” to the underlying
district. In the T DISTRICT all zoning regulations applicable to the
Residential R-3 District shall remain in effect until such time as approval may
be given to a final transitional development plan for the lot or parcel.
      T DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
         (a)   As used in this section, a plan for the development and use of a
specified parcel or tract of real estate, in a form recordable at the County
Recorder’s office, illustrated by a plat and containing:
            1.   A legal description, and dimensions of the proposed
development and acreage;
            2.   Topography at two-foot contour intervals, which shall show the
proposed development area, including property lines, easements and features,
existing thereon, and including a certificate, by a registered engineer or
surveyor, of the gross area of the development in acres and in square feet;
            3.   All landscaping and screening of the development including the
placement of trees, flowers, shrubs, mounding, grass and open spaces of the
proposed development, including the planned buffer areas;
            4.   The location, construction materials, illumination and
dimension of all signs intended to be located on the property;
            5.   The location and dimension of all parking facilities,
vehicular and pedestrian ways, the location and directional flow of existing
and proposed storm and sanitary sewers, areas for on-site water detention, and
an estimate of the traffic volume to be generated;
            6.   A notarized sworn statement explaining in detail the use to
which the property shall be put and the anticipated effect which the proposed
development shall have upon adjacent property;
            7.   Detailed plans of all proposed buildings and structures to be
located on the site. A depiction of the required 100-foot buffer yard and the
location of trees, shrubs, mounding and other screening shall also be
identified. Also shown on a separate document must be the improvements on said
property existing at the time of the T District application. The removal or
alteration of such improvements shall be identified as well as the relative
time frame that this work shall occur;
            8.   The declarations of covenants running with the land, if any;
            9.   Any additional information as reasonably required by Planning
Commission during its review process may be requested from time to time; and
            10.   A schedule for construction and cost estimates for the
completion of the development, including all public and private improvements in
the development area.
         (b)   The T District development plan, unless otherwise specified,
shall be prepared by professional persons qualified in the planning of land
development, traffic engineering and building and landscape design. The
architectural and engineering services required for the preparation of the site
development plan shall be rendered by licensed professional persons.
   (C)   Applicability. This T District is established as an overlay district
by Council superimposed on specific areas of the previously existing
Residential B District (the area of which is now included in Residence R-
3 District) designated on Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 98-43, passed
February 8, 1999. This specific T District is designed to address zoning issues
in this location and is not intended to be applicable to other areas unless the
zoning code is amended in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Charter of the city.
   (D)   Permitted buildings, uses and other regulations.
      (1)   (a)   As a matter of right, those buildings and uses permitted in
the underlying Residential R-3 District shall be permitted in accordance with
all applicable regulations of that underlying district, until such time as
buildings and uses authorized by a T District development plan are approved.
Thereafter, only those buildings and uses approved for a T District development
plan shall be valid on the property.
         (b)   The transition from original use to T District use shall be in
accordance with the time table approved as part of the T District application.
Failure to complete the improvements and obtain a final certificate of
occupancy within the approved time frame, including any authorized extensions,
shall cause the approval of the T District development plan to lapse, and only
buildings and uses permitted in the underlying district shall be permitted
thereafter.
      (2)   The following buildings and uses shall only be permitted pursuant
to a T District development plan, subject to review and approval in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Offices for professional use (such as attorneys, doctors,
architects, dentists and engineers) and office-type business uses (such as real
estate, insurance and manufacturers’ representatives). Activities which are
normal, necessary and subordinate to the office use listed herein shall be
permitted. Examples of such activities include the preparation of dental
supplies for patients, examination of and treatment of patients of a physician,
meeting with clients and provision of services by attorneys and insurance
representatives, and closings held at a real estate office. There shall be no
permitted use of such offices that is not clearly within the types of
activities described herein;
         (b)   Nursing homes and assisted care facilities, but no services
shall be provided to persons who are not residents thereof;
         (c)   Single-family residential uses, which may be combined with the
permitted office uses set forth in division (D)(2)(a) above, as long as a
resident of the residential unit is a primary participant in the business of
the office. No more than one residential dwelling shall be permitted in any T
District development plan when it is combined with the permitted office uses
set forth in division (D)(2)(a) of this section; and
         (d)   Medical clinics, and treatment rooms, but no urgent care
facilities or other medical facilities that normally require emergency services
transportation and no hospital or emergency facilities shall be permitted.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses may be permitted if approved by the
Planning Commission as being consistent with the purposes and provisions of
this chapter.
      (4)   All plans for the uses permitted in the T District shall be
prepared to maximize buffering of adjacent districts to the south, east and
west. Additional trees and plantings shall be part of the landscaping plans
based on consideration of the view from those adjoining districts. The overall
intent and focus of the final plan is to encourage the uses listed above but to
minimize the visual impact to adjacent residential districts. In that regard,
parking for such businesses should, where feasible, be designed for the front
side of such buildings, on the Camargo Road side of the T District development.
Architectural features which resemble or emphasize a residential look of
buildings shall be required as approved by the ARO and shall satisfy the
specific requirements set forth in division (E) of this section. Common drives
and access points to Camargo Road should be considered.
   (E)   Standards for T District development plan review and approval.
      (1)   The active use of property and the design of the buildings in the T
District shall only be approved if it meets the following general conditions as
determined by Planning Commission:
         (a)   The active use and design do not significantly create an adverse
influence on any abutting or surrounding properties;
         (b)   The plan provides for an orderly transition from more
restrictive (residential) to less restrictive districts;
         (c)   The plan is designed to maximize the public interest and private
benefit in a balanced manner; and
         (d)   The plan permits and encourages improved development within the
remaining sites in the T District.
      (2)   Specific requirements and standards that must be clearly set forth
in a T District development plan before it may be approved are as follows.
         (a)   Architectural features shall incorporate such characteristics as
are normally associated with single-family residential homes, including the
following: exterior construction shall be similar to typical residential
construction in such combination as approved by the ARO as being consistent in
character with surrounding residential areas. The side of a building facing
Camargo Road may differ in appearance (for example it may be predominately
glass); gabled or hipped roofs shall be required (no flat roofs); the height of
new buildings shall be limited to 35 feet, consistent with other residential
structures in the city; air conditioning units and waste disposal dumpsters
must be specifically shielded by suitable fencing/landscaping as determined to
be reasonable by the ARO for purposes of shielding these items from adjacent
residential areas. These requirements shall not apply to an existing
residential building which is converted to an office use, provided the exterior
features of the residential structure, including air conditioning and other
exterior equipment, are maintained.
         (b)   A rear yard setback of 100 feet shall be maintained from the
residential district located adjacent to the T District as depicted on Exhibit
A, attached to Ordinance 98-43, passed February 8, 1999. No structures,
including parking areas or driveways, shall be placed within this 100-foot
setback area.
         (c)   New parking areas shall be placed, where practical and feasible,
between the building and Camargo Road. Parking areas which must be placed to
the side or rear of the buildings shall be softened by the placement of
landscaping islands in order to reduce the visual mass of impervious surface
and parked motor vehicles. The number of parking spaces required shall be four
spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor area of the building, excluding areas
devoted exclusively to mechanical (physical plant) equipment, storage or common
hallways. However, shared parking areas may be permitted if it is determined by
the Planning Commission that the overall coverage of impervious areas could be
reduced, it would enhance the green areas available on the development plan and
would permit the new building to be erected closer to Camargo Road. (The city
is attempting to minimize required parking surfaces while ensuring that there
is adequate parking.)
         (d)   Impervious surfaces shall not cover more than 70% of an area
within the entirety of a T District development plan. The required 100-foot
setback area of each lot is included in the T District development plan.
Therefore, in calculating the percentage of the area in the development plan
that impervious surface will cover, the green area within the 100-foot setback
shall be included as part of the total area of the plan. Impervious surface
shall include all areas of ground within the development plan designated as a
parking area, (but not including landscape islands) buildings, structures,
driveways and walkways.
         (e)   Evergreen landscaping within the 100-foot buffer area that is of
sufficient height to block the line of sight view of any parking areas located
in the rear or side of any building to be used in a T District development
plan. Mounding may be included as part of the line of sight screening. The line
of sight shall be from a ten-foot height located in all points along the
residential property line which abuts the T District development.
         (f)   No development plan shall be approved which incorporates a
proposed property line(s) the primary purpose of which appears to be avoiding
the requirements imposed by this chapter.
         (g)   Exterior lighting shall be kept low and shall be reasonably
shielded from adjacent residential districts.
         (h)   A development plan shall provide a written acknowledgment that
all landscaping, screening, mounding, buffering, structures drives and parking
areas and buildings shall be maintained in first class condition and that
failure to so maintain these items shall be a violation of this zoning code,
enforceable in all ways available in law and equity as any other violation of
the city zoning code.
      (3)   No uses in addition to those permitted in the underlying zoning
shall be permitted unless the developer demonstrates compliance with each of
the above standards to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   To secure the application of all relevant standards to a
development in a T District, the Planning Commission shall require that the
following are specifically set forth in any T District development plan:
         (a)   Front, side and rear yard requirements, density requirements,
height and bulk of building requirements and intensity of use; no minimum
setbacks are required to be included in the development plan except there shall
be sufficient setback for necessary screening and that the 100-foot setback
depicted on Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 98-43, passed February 8, 1999,
shall be maintained;
         (b)   The use of materials or designs in the erection of structures
which shall minimize the adverse impact of the uses proposed by the development
plan on neighboring properties;
         (c)   Permits for business signs, outdoor storage, parking spaces and
driveways;
         (d)   Screening or other areas of land to serve as a buffer of the
proposed use in the T District from adjacent properties by walls, fences,
landscaping or open spaces; and
         (e)   Such additional conditions and limitations on the use, building
dimensions, open spaces and the like as may be deemed necessary to carry out
the intent of this chapter and this zoning code.
   (F)   Submission and review of site development plan.
      (1)   Application procedure.
         (a)   Any person or company intending to apply for approval of a T
District development plan shall first schedule a pre-application conference
with the City Manager or his or her assignee. At this conference, the
prospective applicant must present in writing to the City Manager a preliminary
proposal for a T District development plan.
         (b)   The purpose of the pre-application conference will be to,
generally, evaluate the impact on adjacent areas and neighborhoods and identify
the benefits achieved, such as better use of property, stabilizing future
changes and providing a transition area. This information should also identify
the adjoining property owners and any existing nonconforming uses.
         (c)   Upon completion of the pre-application conference an application
may be filed with the office of the City Manager. The application shall be in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and in such form as approved
by the City Manager. If the application does not conform with the requirements
of this chapter, the applicant shall be notified by the City Manager and no
further consideration of the application shall occur until it is in compliance
with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Public hearing and decision.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application in the format prescribed by this
chapter, the City Manager shall forward the application to the Planning
Commission for consideration. The Planning Commission shall review said T
District development plan and shall hold a public hearing on such application.
Notice of such hearing shall be sent to all property owners within 200 feet of
the proposed T District development not less than ten days prior to the
scheduled hearing.
         (b)   Subsequent to the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
either approve the T District development plan as submitted, approve a modified
plan with conditions or deny approval of the plan. Five members of Planning
Commission must vote in the affirmative to approve any such application either
as submitted or modified. Approval of this plan shall be considered approval of
a preliminary T District development plan. Approval of the preliminary
development plan shall not constitute any authority to proceed with
construction or development. Such approval shall only authorize the applicant
to submit a proposed final development plan.
         (c)   A proposed final T District development plan shall be submitted
within six months of the date of the Planning Commission meeting at which the
preliminary plan was approved. The Planning Commission may extend this period
for a reasonable period upon a showing of good cause by the applicant. The
final plan must be substantially consistent with the preliminary plan in all
respects. If the Planning Commission finds that a proposed final plan of a
development area is in substantial accordance with and represents a detailed
expansion of the preliminary plan, as previously approved, that the final plan
complies with all of the conditions and adjustments which may have been imposed
in the approval of the preliminary plan, that it is in accordance with the
criteria and provisions and purpose of this chapter and this code, that all
agreements, contracts, deed restrictions, dedications, declarations of
ownership and other required documents are in acceptable form and have been
executed, that all fee payments have been made, then the Planning Commission
shall approve such final plan and certify its approval to the City Manager and
City Council. Certification of the approval shall be for informational purposes
only.
         (d)   Following the approval of a final plan, the City Manager shall
issue such permits as are necessary and under his or her jurisdiction upon
payment of the required fees.
         (e)   Amendment of plan:
            1.   A major amendment of an existing plan shall require a review
and approval of the Planning Commission in the same manner and with the same
requirements imposed by this chapter for approval of an original T District
development plan. A major amendment shall include any change of use from one
category to another as listed in division (D)(2) of this section, any increase
in the impervious area coverage in excess of 5% over the amount approved in the
original plan, the enlargement of any building from that originally approved,
or the consolidation of use of adjoining T District development plans.
            2.   Minor amendments to a T District development plan must be
approved by the City Manager and the ARO. Either official may refer the request
for approval of a minor amendment to the Planning Commission if the official
determines that the request should be considered a major amendment. Minor
amendments shall include internal changes to buildings and structures, changes
to the front of a building, changes to signs which are not being enlarged and
are consistent with what was previously approved by the Planning Commission,
amendments to drainage pattern or replacement of existing lighting provided it
remains effectively shielded. A minor amendment shall also include any change
of use that does not change the category of use as those categories are set
forth in division (D)(2) hereof. For example, a change in use of an office from
real estate to insurance shall be considered a minor amendment. However, a
change of use from any office use to a medical clinic shall be considered a
major amendment.
      (3)   Contingent-approval permitted. In circumstances where an applicant
needs a variance from the requirements of this code, the Planning Commission
may provide contingent-approval of a final application for a development plan.
Such contingent-approval shall mean their approval of the final application is
subject to the applicant obtaining any required variance(s) from the Board of
Zoning Appeals. If the Planning Commission provides contingent-approval of a
final application and the Board of Zoning Appeals subsequently denies the
applicant’s requested variance(s), said denial shall constitute a rejection of
the final application.
      (4)   Appeals. Pursuant to this section, if the Planning Commission, City
Manager or ARO deny an applicant’s request for approval of a development plan
or an amendment to a previously-approved development plan, such applicant may
appeal the decision denying their request to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing the decision must
provide notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the Planning
Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the Planning
Commission’s provision of written notification of its denial to the applicant.
         (b)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a
public hearing evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review applied
by the Planning Commission to the initial conditional use application, within
60 days of receiving applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.63)
§ 150.126 TRANSITIONAL OVERLAY DISTRICT #2.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   (a)   It is the intent of the Special Public Interest Transitional
District (hereinafter referred to as “T District #2”) to designate a sensitive
transitional area of the city for certain types of controlled development,
which development is consistent with the goals of the city as set forth herein.
The request for approval of a Transitional District development plan within a T
District may only be approved if it is initiated or authorized by the property
owner(s). The area of a T District is set forth on Exhibit B attached to
Ordinance 05-05.
         (b)   Contrary to conventional development control strictly by type of
use, the T District provides a more flexible instrument which governs
development by the criteria of intensity and impacts of a use rather than its
general nature. The meaning of USE is intended to encompass both the activity
intended and permitted to take place on the property, as well as the
improvements, including structures, landscaping, mounding, detention and
drainage areas and parking, intended or planned for the site. As an alternative
to the use of a property strictly in accordance with the underlying district
designated for the parcel, this allows for different types of compatible land
use within the zone designated as a T District #2.
         (c)   The creation of the T District #2 is meant to identify an area
within the city in which the Planning Commission may approve, approve with
modifications or deny specific detailed plans proposed by the property owner
(the Transitional District development plan) which meets the criteria
established for the T District #2.
      (2)   The specific purposes of the T District #2 are:
         (a)   To provide adequate buffering for the protection of residential
districts from the adverse impacts of less restrictive uses which may be
permitted in a T District;
         (b)   To protect and enhance the environmental, cultural, aesthetic
and historic assets of the community through careful planning in the design and
arrangement of buildings, activities, preservation of open or green space and
the optimal utilization of natural site features;
         (c)   To permit the creation of a transitional zone within the city
that will provide for the orderly transition from an existing Residential R-
3 District to the south to less restrictive districts located to the north of
the Transitional District. This must be done in a manner that promotes harmony
within the T District as well as providing transition between surrounding
districts; and
         (d)   To reconcile the existing different uses that are in place at
the inception of the T District so that the long-term value of the property
within the district is enhanced, without unreasonable harm occurring to the
existing activities. Consideration shall be given to permitting reasonable
residential use of the existing dwellings to continue.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      T DISTRICT #2. The district designated by Council on the zoning map and
attached to Ordinance 05-05 as Exhibit B and adopted in accordance with this
code. The T DISTRICT #2 is an overlay district which is superimposed upon the
designated areas within the zoning district, and which shall be identified on
the zoning map by a prefix of “T” to the underlying district. In the T DISTRICT
#2, all zoning regulations applicable to the Residential R-3 District shall
remain in effect until such time as approval may be given to a final
transitional development plan for the lot or parcel.
      T DISTRICT #2 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
         (a)   As used in this section, a plan for the development and use of a
specified parcel or tract of real estate, in a form recordable at the County
Recorder’s office, illustrated by a plat, and containing:
            1.   A legal description, and dimensions of the proposed
development and acreage;
            2.   Topography at two-foot contour intervals, which shall show the
proposed development area, including property lines, easements and features,
existing thereon, and including a certificate, by a registered engineer or
surveyor, of the gross area of the development in acres and in square feet;
            3.   All landscaping and screening of the development including the
placement of trees, flowers, shrubs, mounding, grass and open spaces of the
proposed development, including the planned buffer areas;
            4.   The location, construction materials, illumination and
dimension of all signs intended to be located on the property;
            5.   The location and dimension of all parking facilities, curb
cuts, vehicular and pedestrian ways, the location and direction flow of
existing and proposed storm and sanitary sewers, areas for on-site water
detention and an estimate of the traffic volume to be generated;
            6.   A notarized sworn statement explaining in detail the use to
which the property shall be put and the anticipated effect which the proposed
development shall have upon adjacent property;
            7.   Detailed plans of all proposed buildings and structures to be
located on the site. A depiction of the required 30-foot buffer yard and the
location of trees, shrubs, mounding and other screening shall also be
identified. Also shown on a separate document must be the improvements on said
property existing at the time of the T District application. The removal or
alteration of such improvements shall be identified as well as the relative
time frame that this work shall occur;
            8.   The declarations of covenant running with the land, if any;
            9.   Any additional information as reasonably required by the
Planning Commission during its review process may be requested from time to
time; and
            10.   A schedule for construction and cost estimates for the
completion of the development, including all public and private improvements in
the development area.
         (b)   The T District development plan, unless otherwise specified,
shall be prepared by professional persons qualified in the planning of land
development, traffic engineering and building and landscaping design. The
architectural and engineering services required for the preparation of the site
development plan shall be rendered by licensed professional persons.
   (C)   Applicability. This T District is established as an overlay district
by Council superimposed on specific areas of the previously existing
Residential B District (the area of which is now included in the Residence R-
3 District) designated on Exhibit B, attached to Ordinance 05-05. This specific
T District #2 is designed to address zoning issues in this location and is not
intended to be applicable to other areas unless the zoning code is amended in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Charter of the city.
   (D)   Permitted buildings, uses and other regulations.
      (1)   As a matter of right, those buildings and uses permitted in the
underlying Residential R-3 District shall be permitted in accordance with all
applicable regulations of that underlying district, until such time as
buildings and uses authorized by a T District #2 development plan are approved.
Thereafter, only those buildings and uses approved for a T District #2
development plan shall be valid on the property. The transition from original
use to T District #2 use shall be in accordance with the time table approved as
part of the T District #2 application. Failure to complete the improvements and
obtain a final certificate of occupancy within the approved time frame,
including any authorized extensions, shall cause the approval of the T District
#2 development plan to lapse, and only buildings and uses permitted in the
underlying district shall be permitted thereafter.
      (2)   The following buildings and uses shall only be permitted pursuant
to a T District #2 development plan, subject to review and approval in
accordance with the provisions of this section:
         (a)   Offices for professional use (such as attorneys, doctors,
architects, dentists and engineers) and office-type business uses (such as real
estate, insurance and manufacturers’ representatives). Activities which are
normal, necessary and subordinate to the office use listed herein shall be
permitted. Examples of such activities include the preparation of dental
supplies for patients, examination of and treatment of patients of a physician,
meeting with clients and provision of services by attorneys and insurance
representatives, and closings held at a real estate office. There shall be no
permitted use of such offices that is not clearly within the types of
activities described herein;
         (b)   A LOW DENSITY RETAIL USE shall de defined as follows:
            1.   The hours of operation (hours held open to the public) are
limited to 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday and 10:00 a.m. to 5:
00 p.m. on Sunday; and
            2.   The retail use shall not occupy more than 2,000 square feet of
usable floor area of any existing or new structure. These uses shall include:
               a.   Specialty shop;
               b.   Clothing store;
               c.   Bank;
               d.   Bookstore;
               e.   Barbershop/salon;
               f.   Pet grooming;
               g.   Gift shop;
               h.   Florist;
               i.   Arts and crafts; and
               j.   Other similar uses that are consistent with these
guidelines established herein, as demonstrated by the applicant, and have been
approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Single-family residential uses, which may be combined with the
permitted uses set forth in divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)(b) of this section,
as long as a resident of the residential unit is a primary participant in the
business. No more than one residential dwelling shall be permitted in any T
District #2 development plan when it is combined with the permitted uses set
forth in division (D)(2)(a) of this section; and
         (d)   Medical clinics and treatment rooms, but no urgent care
facilities or other medical facilities that normally require emergency services
transportation and no hospital or emergency facilities shall be permitted.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses may be permitted if approved by the
Planning Commission as being consistent with the purposes and provisions of
this section.
      (4)   All plans for the uses permitted in the T District #2 shall be
prepared to maximize buffering of adjacent districts to the south. Additional
trees and plantings shall be part of the landscaping plans based on
consideration of the view from those adjoining districts. The overall intent
and focus of the final plan is to encourage the uses listed above but to
minimize the visual impact to adjacent residential districts. In that regard,
parking for such businesses should, where feasible, be designed for the front
side of such buildings, on the Camargo Road side of the T District #2
development. Architectural features which resemble or emphasize a residential
look of buildings shall be required as approved by the ARO and shall satisfy
the specific requirements set forth in division (E) below. Common drives and
access points to Camargo Road should be considered.
   (E)   Standards for T District #2 development plan review and approval.
      (1)   The active use of property and the design of the buildings in the T
District #2 shall only be approved if it meets the following general conditions
as determined by the Planning Commission:
         (a)   The active use and design do not significantly create an adverse
influence on any abutting or surrounding properties;
         (b)   The plan provides for an orderly transition from more
restrictive (residential) to less restrictive districts;
         (c)   The plan is designed to maximize the public interest and private
benefit in a balanced manner; and
         (d)   The plan permits and encourages improved development within the
remaining sites in the T District #2.
      (2)   Specific requirements and standards that must be clearly set forth
in a T District #2 development plan before it may be approved are as follows.
         (a)   Architectural features shall incorporate such characteristics as
are normally associated with single-family residential homes, including the
following: exterior construction shall be similar to typical residential
construction in such combination as approved by the ARO as being consistent in
character with surrounding residential areas. The side of a building facing
Camargo Road may differ in appearance (for example it may be predominantly
glass); gabled or hipped roofs shall be required (no flat roofs); the height of
new buildings shall be limited to 28 feet, consistent with other residential
structures in the city; air conditioning units and waste disposal dumpsters
must be specifically shielded by suitable fencing/landscaping as determined to
be reasonable by the ARO for purposes of shielding these items from adjacent
residential areas. These requirements shall not apply to an existing
residential building which is converted to an office use, provided the exterior
features of the residential structure, including air conditioning and other
exterior equipment, are maintained.
         (b)   A rear yard setback of 30 feet shall be maintained from the
residential district located adjacent to the T District #2 as depicted on
Exhibit B, attached to Ordinance 05-05. No structures, including parking areas
or driveways, shall be placed within this 30-foot setback area.
         (c)   New parking areas shall be placed, where practical and feasible,
between the building and Camargo Road. Parking areas which must be placed to
the side or rear of the buildings shall be softened by the placement of
landscaping islands in order to reduce the visual mass of impervious surface
and parked motor vehicles. The number of parking spaces required shall be five
spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor area of the building, excluding areas
devoted exclusively to mechanical (physical plant) equipment, storage or common
hallways. However, shared parking areas may be permitted if it is determined by
the Planning Commission that the overall coverage of impervious areas could be
reduced, it would enhance the green areas available on the development plan and
would permit the new building to be erected closer to Camargo Road. (Note: The
city is attempting to minimize required parking surfaces while ensuring that
there is adequate parking.)
         (d)   Impervious surfaces shall not cover more than 70% of an area
within the entirety of a T District development plan. The required 30-foot
setback area of each lot is included in the T District development plan.
Therefore, in calculating the percentage of the area in the development plan
that impervious surface will cover, the green area within the 30-foot setback
shall be included as part of the total area of the plan. Impervious surface
shall include all areas of ground within the development plan designated as a
parking area (but not including landscape islands), buildings, structures,
driveways and walkways.
         (e)   A landscape plan shall be required and will include evergreen
landscaping within the 30-foot setback area that is of sufficient height to
block the line of sight view of any parking areas located in the rear or side
of any building to be used in a T District #2 development plan. Mounding may be
included as part of the line of sight screening. The line of sight shall be
from a ten-foot height located in all points along the residential property
line which abuts the T District #2 development.
         (f)   No development plan shall be approved which incorporates a
proposed property line(s) the primary purpose of which appears to be avoiding
the requirements imposed by this chapter.
         (g)   Exterior lighting shall be kept low and shall be reasonably
shielded from adjacent residential districts.
         (h)   The development plan shall provide a written acknowledgment that
all landscaping, screening, mounding, buffering, structure drives and parking
areas and buildings shall be maintained in first class condition and that
failure to so maintain these items shall be a violation of this zoning code,
enforceable in all ways available in law and equity as any other violation of
the city zoning code.
         (i)   Redevelopment of the property shall require improvements to the
property including the installation of appropriate curbs, sidewalks, lighting
and other streetscape treatment as designated by the ARO. If a variance is
requested by the owner and granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall require the owner to post a bond for the full amount of
the improvements to be installed at a later date.
         (j)   Access to these properties shall be limited to Camargo Road
only.
         (k)   Developments are encouraged to limit the number of curb cuts per
site. The Planning Commission will approve the number and location of curb cuts
for each site. If there is ever a conflict between the requirements in the T
District and the parking regulations, the T District requirements will
supersede the underlying requirements.
      (3)   No uses in addition to those permitted in the underlying zoning
shall be permitted unless the developer demonstrates compliance with each of
the above standards to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   To secure the application of all relevant standards to a
development in the T District #2, the Planning Commission shall require that
the following are specifically set forth in any T District #2 development plan:
         (a)   Front, side and rear yard requirements, density requirements,
height and bulk of building requirements and intensity of use; no minimum
setbacks are required to be included in the development plan except there shall
be sufficient setback for necessary screening and that the 30-foot setback
depicted on Exhibit B, attached to Ordinance 05-05, shall be maintained;
         (b)   The use of materials or designs in the erection of structures
which shall minimize the adverse impact of the uses proposed by the development
plan on neighboring properties;
         (c)   Permits for business signs, outdoor storage, parking spaces and
driveways;
         (d)   Screening or other areas of land to serve as a buffer of the
proposed use in the T District #2 from adjacent properties by walls, fences,
landscaping or open spaces; and
         (e)   Such additional conditions and limitations on the use, building
dimensions, open spaces and the like as may be deemed necessary to carry out
the intent of this chapter and this zoning code.
   (F)   Submission and review of site development plan.
      (1)   Application procedure.
         (a)   Any person or company intending to apply for approval of a T
District #2 development plan shall first schedule a pre-application conference
with the City Manager or his or her assignee. At this conference, the
prospective applicant must present in writing to the City Manager a preliminary
proposal for a T District #2 development plan.
         (b)   The purpose of the pre-application conference will be to,
generally, evaluate the impact on adjacent areas and neighborhoods and identify
the benefits achieved, such as better use of property, stabilizing future
changes and providing a transition area. This information should also identify
the adjoining property owners and any existing nonconforming uses.
         (c)   Upon completion of the pre-application conference an application
may be filed with the office of the City Manager. The application shall be in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and in such form as approved
by the City Manager. If the application does not conform with the requirements
of this chapter, the applicant shall be notified by the City Manager and no
further consideration of the application shall occur until it is in compliance
with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Public hearing and decision.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application in the format prescribed by this
chapter, the City Manager shall forward the application to the Planning
Commission for consideration. The Planning Commission shall review said T
District # 2 development plan and shall hold a public hearing on such
application. Notice of such hearing shall be sent to all property owners within
200 feet of the proposed T District #2 development not less than ten days prior
to the scheduled hearing.
         (b)   Subsequent to the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
either approve the T District #2 development plan as submitted, approve a
modified plan with conditions or deny approval of the plan. Five members of the
Planning Commission must vote in the affirmative to approve any such
application either as submitted or modified. Approval of this plan shall be
considered approval of a preliminary T District development plan. Approval of
the preliminary development plan shall not constitute any authority to proceed
with construction or development. Such approval shall only authorize the
applicant to submit a proposed final development plan.
         (c)   A proposed final T District #2 development plan shall be
submitted within six months of the date of the Planning Commission meeting at
which the preliminary plan was approved. The Planning Commission may extend
this period for a reasonable period upon a showing of good cause by the
applicant. The final plan must be substantially consistent with the preliminary
plan in all respects. If the Planning Commission finds that a proposed final
plan of a development area is in substantial accordance with and represents a
detailed expansion of the preliminary plan, as previously approved, that the
final plan complies with all of the conditions and adjustments which may have
been imposed in the approval of the preliminary plan, that it is in accordance
with the criteria and provisions and purpose of this chapter and this code,
that all agreements, contracts, deed restrictions, dedications, declaration of
ownership and other required documents are in acceptable form and have been
executed, that all fee payments have been made, then the Planning Commission
shall approve such final plan and certify its approval to the City Manager and
City Council. Certification of the approval shall be for informational purposes
only.
         (d)   Following the approval of a final plan, the City Manager shall
issue such permits as are necessary and under his or her jurisdiction upon
payment of the required fees.
         (e)   Amendment of plan:
            1.   A major amendment of an existing plan shall require a review
and approval of the Planning Commission in the same manner and with the same
requirements imposed by this chapter for approval of an original T District
development plan. A major amendment shall include any change of use from one
category to another as listed in this division (D)(2), any increase in the
impervious area of coverage in excess of 5% over the amount approved in the
original plan, the enlargement of any building from that originally approved,
or the consolidation of use of adjoining T District development plans.
            2.   Minor amendments to a T District #2 development plan must be
approved by the City Manager and the ARO. Either official may refer the request
for approval of a minor amendment to the Planning Commission if the official
determines that the request should be considered a major amendment. Minor
amendments shall include internal changes to buildings and structures, changes
to the front of a building, changes to signs which are not being enlarged and
are consistent with what was previously approved by the Planning Commission,
amendments to drainage pattern or replacement of existing lighting provided it
remains effectively shielded. A minor amendment shall also include any change
of use that does not change the category of use as those categories are set
forth in this division (D)(2). For example, a change in use of an office from
real estate to insurance shall be considered a minor amendment. However, a
change of use from any office use to a medical clinic shall be considered a
major amendment.
      (3)   Contingent-approval permitted. In circumstances where an applicant
needs a variance from the requirements of this code, the Planning Commission
may provide contingent-approval of a final application for a development plan.
Such contingent-approval shall mean their approval of the final application is
subject to the applicant obtaining any required variance(s) from the Board of
Zoning Appeals. If the Planning Commission provides contingent-approval of a
final application and the Board of Zoning Appeals subsequently denies the
applicant’s requested variance(s), said denial shall constitute a rejection of
the final application.
      (4)   Appeals. Pursuant to this section, if the Planning Commission, City
Manager or ARO deny an applicant’s request for approval of a development plan
or an amendment to a previously-approved development plan, such applicant may
appeal the decision denying their request to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing the decision must
provide notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the Planning
Commission’s provision of written notification of its denial to the applicant.
         (b)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a
public hearing, evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review
applied by the Planning Commission to the initial conditional use application,
within 60 days of receiving applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.64)
§ 150.127 TRANSITIONAL OVERLAY DISTRICT #3.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of the Transitional Overlay District #3
(hereinafter referred to as “T District #3”) to designate a sensitive
transitional area of the city for certain types of controlled development
consistent with the purposes of the city as set forth herein. The request for
approval of a T District #3 development plan within a T District #3 may only be
approved if it is initiated or authorized by the property owner(s). The area of
a T District #3 is set forth on Exhibit B attached to Ordinance 10-22, passed
on February 14, 2011.
   (B)   Purposes. The specific purposes of the T District #3 are:
      (1)   To encourage development of appropriate land uses in the district
given the existing surrounding development;
      (2)   To provide adequate buffering for the protection of existing
adjacent residential uses and districts from the adverse impacts of more
intense uses that may be developed in the T District #3; and
      (3)   To provide for the orderly transition from an existing Residence R-
2 District to the south and east of the T District #3 to the higher intensity
uses of the Business A District to the north and west. This must be done in a
manner that promotes harmony within the T District #3 as well as providing a
transition between surrounding districts.
   (C)   Applicability. This T District #3 is established as an overlay
district by Council superimposed on specific areas of a Residence R-2 District
designated on Exhibit B, attached to Ordinance 10-22 passed on February 14,
2011. It shall be identified on the zoning map by a “T District #3”. This
specific T District #3 is designed to address zoning issues in this location
and is not intended to be applicable to other areas unless the zoning code is
amended in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Charter of the city.
In the T District #3, all zoning regulations applicable to the Residence R-
2 District shall remain in effect until such time as approval may be given to a
final T District #3 development plan for the lot or parcel.
   (D)   Development plan required. Redevelopment of the property shall require
a development plan which includes necessary public improvements. The
development plan requirements are listed in division (G) of this section.
   (E)   Definitions. Included in definitions in §
150.001.
   (F)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   As a matter of right, those buildings and uses permitted in the
underlying Residence R-2 District shall be permitted in accordance with all
applicable regulations of that underlying district, until such time as
buildings and uses authorized by a T District #3 development plan are approved.
Thereafter, only those buildings and uses approved for a T District #3
development plan shall be valid on the property. The transition from original
uses to T District #3 uses shall be in accordance with the schedule for
construction approved as part of the T District #3 application. Failure to
complete the improvements and obtain a final certificate of occupancy within
the approved time frame, including any authorized extensions, shall cause the
approval of the T District #3 development plan to lapse, and the site shall
revert to only buildings and uses permitted in the underlying district.
      (2)   Multi-family residential uses, including attached townhouses,
pursuant to a T District #3 development plan, subject to review and approval in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, that meet the following
standards:
         (a)   Two and twenty-four one hundredths acres minimum site size;
         (b)   No more than 15 dwelling units per acre calculated on the entire
gross acreage of the development site;
         (c)   One hundred-foot minimum setback from the side property line to
the south;
         (d)   Ten-foot minimum setback from the side property line to the
north;
         (e)   Ten-foot minimum rear yard setback from the east property line
abutting a nonresidential use;
         (f)   Fifty-foot minimum rear yard setback from the east property line
abutting a residential use;
         (g)   Thirty-foot minimum attractively landscaped setback from
Hosbrook Road which includes a combination of grass, groundcover and trees, and
does not interfere with visibility for drivers entering and exiting the
property;
         (h)   Twenty-five-foot minimum landscaped bufferyard within the 100-
foot and 50-foot setbacks, pursuant to division (I)(8) of this section;
         (i)   Minimum unit size of 750 square feet;
         (j)   Minimum of two enclosed parking spaces per unit; and
         (k)   Minimum of one visitor parking space per unit that can either be
enclosed or a surface parking lot.
      (3)   Independent living for adults age 55 and older, defined as in
division (E) above, pursuant to a T District #3 development plan, subject to
review and approval in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, that
meet the following standards:
         (a)   Two and twenty-four one hundredths acres minimum site size;
         (b)   No more than 15 dwelling units per acre calculated on the entire
gross acreage of the development site;
         (c)   One hundred-foot minimum setback from the side property line to
the south;
         (d)   Ten-foot minimum setback from the side property line to the
north;
         (e)   Ten-foot minimum rear yard setback from the east property line
abutting a nonresidential use;
         (f)   Fifty-foot minimum rear yard setback from the east property line
abutting a residential use;
         (g)   Thirty-foot minimum attractively landscaped setback from
Hosbrook Road which includes a combination of grass, groundcover, and trees,
and does not interfere with visibility for drivers entering and exiting the
property;
         (h)   Twenty-five-foot minimum landscaped bufferyard within the 100-
foot and 50-foot setbacks, pursuant to division (I)(8) of this section;
         (i)   Minimum unit size of 750 square feet;
         (j)   Minimum of one enclosed parking space per unit; and
         (k)   Minimum of seven employee parking spaces and one visitor parking
space per unit that can either be enclosed or a surface parking lot.
      (4)   Offices for professional use (such as attorneys, doctors,
architects, dentists, and engineers) and office-type business uses (such as
real estate, insurance and manufacturers’ representatives). Activities which
are normal, necessary and subordinate to the office use listed herein shall be
permitted. Examples of such activities include the preparation of dental
supplies for patients, examination of and treatment of patients of a physician,
meeting with clients and provision of services by attorneys and insurance
representatives, and closings held at a real estate office. There shall be no
permitted use of such offices that is not clearly within the types of
activities described herein.
         (a)   Offices converted from residential structures existing at the
time of adoption of these T District #3 regulations for which no expansion or
other exterior changes are proposed must meet the following standards:
            1.   One parking space for each 500 square feet of gross office
space;
            2.   Compliance with all other parking requirements of the city
zoning code;
            3.   New parking areas abutting a residence use must not be placed
within 25 feet of the property; and
            4.   Some submission requirements may be waived by the City
Manager.
         (b)   Offices which are new construction must meet the following
standards:
            1.   Two and twenty-four one hundredths acres minimum site size;
            2.   One hundred-foot minimum setback from the side property line
to the south;
            3.   Ten-foot minimum side yard setback from the side property line
to the north;
            4.   Ten-foot minimum rear yard setback from the east property line
abutting a nonresidential use;
            5.   Fifty-foot minimum rear yard setback from the east property
line abutting a residential use;
            6.   Thirty-foot minimum attractively landscaped setback from
Hosbrook Road which includes a combination of grass, groundcover, and trees,
and does not interfere with visibility for drivers entering and exiting the
property;
            7.   Twenty-five-foot minimum landscaped bufferyard within the 100-
foot and 50-foot setbacks pursuant to division (I)(8) of this section; and
            8.   Must comply with all parking requirements of the zoning code.
      (5)   Accessory buildings and uses may be permitted if approved by the
Planning Commission as being consistent with the purposes and provisions of
this chapter.
   (G)   Development plan requirements.
      (1)   Full size plat of development, drawn to a scale of one inch equals
50 feet, with north arrow, and identification of site in relation to adjacent
main roads;
      (2)   Existing and proposed property lines, and dimensions and acreage of
the proposed development, certified by a licensed engineer or registered
surveyor;
      (3)   Existing and proposed topography at two-foot contour intervals
prepared and certified by a registered surveyor;
      (4)   Footprints of existing structures on lots to be developed and all
adjacent lots, with notations for proposed demolition of any structures;
      (5)   Footprints of all proposed structures;
      (6)   All proposed setbacks, indicating dimension and distance from
property lines to proposed structures, including decks, porches and patios;
      (7)   Location and dimension of all parking areas and facilities, park or
playground areas, vehicular and pedestrian ways, other common areas, and all
other impermeable public or private paved surfaces;
      (8)   Location and dimension of all entrances into and exits from the
development;
      (9)   Information on all signage to be located on the property pursuant
to the city sign code and application;
      (10)   Location, construction material, illumination in footcandles of
all proposed lighting, and photometric study;
      (11)   Location of dumpsters, with required sufficient screening, and
location of mailboxes;
      (12)   Location of all utilities, and location and directional flow of
existing and proposed water and sanitary sewers and areas for on-site water
retention and detention;
      (13)   Elevations of proposed structures, including notation for proposed
building height;
      (14)   A landscape plan including the following:
         (a)   The location of all existing vegetation, noting whether it will
remain or not;
         (b)   The location of proposed bufferyards, landscaping and screening,
including trees, flower beds, shrubs, mounding, grass and open space, and all
irrigation devices for the landscaping; and
         (c)   A table listing the common and botanical names of all proposed
plants to be planted or retained on the site pursuant to division (I)(9) of
this section.
      (15)   Traffic circulation and access including adequacy of adjacent
streets, entrances and exits, traffic flow, sight distance, curb cuts, turning
lanes and existing or recommended traffic signalization, and emergency vehicle
access.
   (H)   Additional submission requirements.
      (1)   A traffic management plan, provided by a licensed engineer, that
includes, but is not limited to, a traffic count along Hosbrook Road, prior to
development, and a projection of the traffic impact after development,
illustrating line of sight issues, alignment with driveways or streets on
Hosbrook Road, identification of sight distance issues related to access to the
proposed development, and distance to adjacent driveways on Hosbrook Road;
      (2)   A statement explaining in detail the use to which the property
shall be put and the anticipated effect which the proposed development shall
have upon adjacent property;
      (3)   A letter from MSD indicating the availability of sewer service;
      (4)   A legal description of the lots;
      (5)   A description of all exterior building materials and colors;
      (6)   A schedule for construction, and cost estimates for the completion
of the development including all public and private improvements;
      (7)   Plans, if any, to dedicate any streets or other property to the
city;
      (8)   A performance bond or other acceptable security and other legal
data to ensure completion of streets, bufferyard and amenities in accordance
with the accepted plans may be required for the final development plan; and
      (9)   The development plan shall provide a written acknowledgment that
all landscaping, screening, mounding, buffering, structure drives, and parking
areas and buildings shall be maintained in first class condition, to the
satisfaction of the City Manager and his or her designee, and that failure to
so maintain these items shall be a violation of this zoning code, enforceable
in all ways available in law and equity as any other violation of the city
zoning code.
   (I)   General standards for T District #3 development plan approval. The
active use of property and the design of the buildings in the T District #3
shall only be approved if the Planning Commission determines that they do not
significantly create an adverse influence on any abutting or surrounding
properties; provide for an orderly transition from more restrictive
(residential) to less restrictive districts; and if the plan is designed to
maximize the public interest and private benefit in a balanced manner. The
following standards apply to all uses:
      (1)   Waste disposal dumpsters and any other ground level mechanical
units must be shielded by suitable fencing/landscaping as approved by the ARO;
      (2)   Any rooftop mechanical units including satellite dishes must be
shielded from residential areas and approved by the ARO;
      (3)   The site must maintain an impervious surface ratio of 60% (ISR =
total area of buildings and impervious surface areas divided by the total area
of the lot) or 40% open space;
      (4)   Maximum height permitted is 827 feet above mean sea level (includes
rooftop mechanicals which must be screened as stated above in division (I)(2)
above);
      (5)   Loading areas must be to the rear of the site;
      (6)   Exterior lighting shall be kept low (-0- footcandles net increase
at property line abutting residential district or use) and shall be shielded
from adjacent residential districts or use with house side shields;
      (7)   New parking areas shall be placed, where practical and feasible,
behind the building, with parking in the front of the building limited to short
term pick-up and drop off and valet parking. Parking areas which must be placed
to the side or rear of the buildings shall be softened by the placement of
landscaping islands in order to reduce the visual mass of impervious surface
and parked motor vehicles;
      (8)   Landscaping shall be installed in the bufferyard which creates a
physical and visual buffer from adjoining properties, and for this purpose, a
combination of live plantings shall be planted within the side and rear yard
setbacks and described herein, according to acceptable nursery industry
standards and shall comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   All landscaping materials shall consist of only live plantings,
and shall be installed and maintained according to accepted nursery industry
procedures;
         (b)   Landscaping materials shall be of sufficient height to block the
line of sight of any residential areas adjacent to the T District #3 site.
Mounding may be included as part of the line of sight screening. The line of
sight shall be from a ten-foot height located in all points along the
residential property line which abuts the T District #3 development;
         (c)   Landscaping planted within the bufferyard shall create a dense
vegetative screen, which shall be equally effective in winter and summer;
         (d)   Shrubs planted in the bufferyard shall be a minimum height of
three and one-half feet when planted, and shall achieve a height of six feet,
no later than 24 months after the initial installation;
         (e)   When required landscaping is located along the area extending
from the building to the street, the height shall be consistent with sight
distance from the street for safety purposes;
         (f)   Each shrub shall be planted sufficiently close to the next
shrub, according to nursery industry standards, to provide an effective, dense
screen;
         (g)   Deciduous trees shall be a minimum caliper of three inches at
the time of planting (if deciduous trees are used for screening purposes,
additional materials must be used to create a dense buffer);
         (h)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of eight feet in height at
the time of planting; and
         (i)   No driveways or parking areas shall be placed within the
bufferyard;
      (9)   Access to these properties shall be limited to Hosbrook Road only;
      (10)   Developments are encouraged to limit the number of curb cuts per
site;
      (11)   If there is a conflict between the requirements in the T District
#3 and the parking regulations, the T District #3 requirements will supersede
the underlying requirements; and
      (12)   Violation of these provisions shall be grounds for the city to
refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy.
   (J)   Submission and review of site development plan.
      (1)   Application procedure.
         (a)   Any person or company intending to develop a use other than a
single- family residential use must apply for approval of a T District #3
development plan, and shall first schedule a pre-application conference with
the City Manager or his or her assignee. At this conference, the prospective
applicant must present in writing to the City Manager a preliminary proposal
for the development plan.
         (b)   The purpose of the pre-application conference will be to,
generally, evaluate the impact on adjacent areas and neighborhoods and identify
the benefits achieved, such as better use of property, stabilizing future
changes and providing a transition area. This information should also identify
the adjoining property owners and any existing nonconforming uses.
         (c)   Upon completion of the pre-application conference an application
may be filed with the office of the City Manager. The application shall be in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and in such form as approved
by the City Manager. If the application does not conform with the requirements
of this chapter, the applicant shall be notified by the City Manager and no
further consideration of the application shall occur until it is in compliance
with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Public hearing and decision.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application in the format prescribed by this
chapter, the City Manager shall forward the application to the Planning
Commission for consideration. The Planning Commission shall review said T
District #3 development plan and shall hold a public hearing on such
application. Notice of such hearing shall be sent to all property owners within
200 feet of the proposed T District #3 development not less than ten days prior
to the scheduled hearing.
         (b)   Subsequent to the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
either approve the T District #3 development plan as submitted, approve a
modified plan with conditions, or deny approval of the plan. Five members of
the Planning Commission must vote in the affirmative to approve any such
application either as submitted or modified. Approval of this plan shall be
considered approval of a preliminary T District #3 development plan. Approval
of the preliminary development plan shall not constitute any authority to
proceed with construction or development. Such approval shall only authorize
the applicant to submit a proposed final development plan.
         (c)   A proposed final T District #3 development plan shall be
submitted within six months of the date of the Planning Commission meeting at
which the preliminary plan was approved. The Planning Commission may extend
this period for a reasonable period upon a showing of good cause by the
applicant. The final plan must be substantially consistent with the preliminary
development plan in all respects. If the Planning Commission finds that a
proposed final plan of a development area is in substantial accordance with and
represents a detailed expansion of the preliminary plan, as previously
approved, that the final plan complies with all of the conditions and
adjustments which may have been imposed in the approval of the preliminary
plan, that it is in accordance with the criteria and provisions and purpose of
this chapter and this code, that all agreements, contracts, deed restrictions,
dedications, declaration of ownership and other required documents are in
acceptable form and have been executed, that all fee payments have been made,
then the Planning Commission shall approve such final plan and certify its
approval to the City Manager and City Council. Certification of the approval
shall be for informational purposes only.
         (d)   Following the approval of a final plan, the City Manager shall
issue such permits as are necessary and under his or her jurisdiction upon
payment of the required fees.
      (3)   Amendment of plan.
         (a)   A major amendment of an existing plan shall require review and
approval of the Planning Commission in the same manner and with the same
requirements imposed by this chapter for approval of an original T District #3
development plan. A major amendment shall include any change of use from one
category to another as listed in division (F) of this section; any increase in
the impervious area of coverage in excess of 5% over the amount approved in the
original plan; the enlargement of any building from that originally approved;
or the consolidation of use of adjoining T District #3 development plans.
         (b)   Minor amendments to a T District #3 development plan must be
approved by the City Manager and the ARO. Either official may refer the request
for approval of a minor amendment to the Planning Commission if the official
determines that the request should be considered a major amendment. Minor
amendments shall include internal changes to buildings and structures; changes
to the front of a building; changes to signs which are not being enlarged and
are consistent with what was previously approved by the Planning Commission;
amendments to the drainage pattern; or replacement of existing lighting
provided it remains effectively shielded. A minor amendment shall also include
any change of use that does not change the category of use as those categories
are set forth in division (F) of this section.
      (4)   Contingent-approval permitted. In circumstances where an applicant
needs a variance from the requirements of this code, the Planning Commission
may provide contingent-approval of a final application for a development plan.
Such contingent-approval shall mean their approval of the final application is
subject to the applicant obtaining any required variance(s) from the Board of
Zoning Appeals. If the Planning Commission provides contingent-approval of a
final application and the Board of Zoning Appeals subsequently denies the
applicant’s requested variance(s), said denial shall constitute a rejection of
the final application.
      (5)   Appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals. Pursuant to this section, if
the Planning Commission, City Manager or ARO deny an applicant’s request for
approval of a development plan or an amendment to a previously-approved
development plan, such applicant may appeal the decision denying their request
to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing the decision must
provide notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the Planning
Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the Planning
Commission’s provision of written notification of its denial to the applicant.
         (b)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a
public hearing, evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review
applied by the Planning Commission to the initial conditional use application,
within 60 days of receiving applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.65)
§ 150.128 TRANSITIONAL RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   It is the intent of the Transitional Residential Overlay District
(hereinafter referred to as the “TRO District”) to designate an area of the
city for increased density of residential development, to provide more housing
options while maintaining the value and quality of the city’s housing stock.
      (2)   The existing Residence B single-family zoning within the district
shall remain intact but the designated areas shall be eligible for increased
density of residential development provided the criteria, conditions and
requirements set forth in this section are met as determined by and as
established by the City Planning Commission, following approval of an
application for a Transitional Residential Overlay development plan within the
TRO District.
      (3)   A TRO District development plan must be submitted to the Planning
Commission, and must be initiated or authorized in writing by the property
owner(s); the Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or
deny the detailed specific TRO plan submitted with the application.
      (4)   The creation of the TRO District on the south side of Euclid Avenue
between Miami Avenue and Laurel Avenue, recognizes the following unique factors
which are compatible with alternative, higher density single-family housing
development:
         (a)   Commercial uses on Laurel Avenue, abutting the TRO District to
the south;
         (b)   The high level of traffic in the intersection of Miami and
Euclid, occupied by an office, the municipal building, a fire station, and a
library;
         (c)   A power station, and additional business uses to the east; and
         (d)   The high level of traffic on the two lane primary street (Euclid
Avenue) to the north.
   (B)   Applicability. This TRO District is established as an overlay district
superimposed on specific areas, including the previously existing Residence B
district (the area of which is now included in the Residence R-3 District),
designated on Exhibit “A” attached to Ordinance No. 08-05, passed on February
28, 2008 and is not intended to be applicable to other areas unless the zoning
code is amended in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Charter of
the City of Madeira.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses in the TRO District shall be those uses permitted in
the underlying Residence R-3 District, which allows single-family detached
residences.
      (2)   In addition, permitted uses in the TRO District shall include
attached townhouse style residences, with a minimum of 1,000 square feet of
floor area. For the purposes of this section, FLOOR AREA shall only include
first floor and above living areas. Floor areas of garages, cellars and
basements shall not be included in the calculation of total floor area. No
structure is permitted to consist of more than four attached townhouses, except
for buildings referenced under division (G)(9) of this section.
   (D)   Conditional and home office uses. Conditional uses in the TRO District
shall be the same as those for other residential districts pursuant to §
150.048 and home offices, pursuant to §
150.047.
   (E)   Accessory structures not allowed. Except for fences identified and
approved as part of the development plan, detached accessory structures,
including detached parking structures shall not be allowed on the subject
property anywhere within the TRO District, unless the property is used in
accordance with Residence B zoning.
   (F)   TRO development plan submission requirements. The TRO development plan
shall be prepared, and stamped if appropriate by licensed professional persons
qualified in the planning of land development, traffic engineering and building
and landscape design. No plan shall be approved by Planning Commission unless
all of the criteria set forth below are met. A TRO development plan may only be
adopted upon determination that all the information set forth below has been
provided in the application (which shall include the proposed site plan) and is
in compliance (as determined by the Planning Commission) with the criteria set
forth below.
      (1)   Site plan requirements.
         (a)   Full size plat of development, drawn to a scale of one inch
equals 50 feet, north arrow, and identification of site in relation to adjacent
main roads;
         (b)   Existing and proposed property lines, and dimensions and acreage
of the proposed development, certified by a registered engineer or surveyor;
         (c)   Existing and proposed topography at two-foot contour intervals
prepared and stamped by a licensed surveyor;
         (d)   Footprints of existing structures on lots to be developed and
all adjacent lots, with notations for proposed demolition of any structures;
         (e)   Footprints of all proposed structures;
         (f)   All proposed setbacks, indicating dimension and distance from
property lines to proposed structures, including decks, porches and patios;
         (g)   Location and dimension of all parking facilities, park or
playground areas, vehicular and pedestrian ways, other common areas, and all
other impermeable public or private paved surfaces;
         (h)   Location and dimension of all entrances into and exits from the
development;
         (i)   Location, construction materials, illumination and dimension of
all proposed signage and lighting;
         (j)   Location of dumpsters, with required sufficient screening, and
location of mailboxes;
         (k)   Location of all utilities, and location and directional flow of
existing and proposed water lines, storm and sanitary sewers, and areas for on-
site water retention and detention (see list below, approval contingent upon
approval of the Metropolitan Sewer District);
         (l)   Elevations of proposed structures, including notation for
proposed building height;
         (m)   Location of all existing vegetation, noting whether it will
remain or not, and proposed landscaping and screening, including trees, flower
beds, shrubs, mounding, grass and open space, as well as location of all
irrigation devices for the landscaping;
         (n)   Elevations of all proposed vegetation, and a table listing the
common and botanical names of all proposed plants to be planted or retained on
the site;
         (o)   Traffic circulation and access including adequacy of adjacent
streets, entrances and exits, traffic flow, sight distance, curb cuts, turning
lanes and existing or recommended traffic signalization, and emergency vehicle
access; and
         (p)   Public sidewalks which shall be maintained and/or extended
wherever proposed development is adjacent to Euclid Avenue.
      (2)   Additional submission requirements.
         (a)   A traffic management plan, provided by a licensed engineer, that
includes but is not limited to a traffic count along Euclid Avenue, prior to
development, and a projection of the traffic impact after development,
illustrating line of sight issues, alignment with driveways or streets on the
north side of Euclid Avenue, identification of sight-distance issues related to
access to the proposed development, and distance to adjacent driveways on the
south side of Euclid Avenue;
         (b)   A notarized statement explaining in detail the use to which the
property shall be put and the anticipated effect which the proposed development
shall have upon adjacent property;
         (c)   A letter from MSD indicating the availability of sewer service;
         (d)   A legal description of the lots;
         (e)   A description of all exterior building materials and colors;
         (f)   A plant list (an accepted plant list from the city may be used)
indicating the common name and botanical name of plants shown on the
development site plan;
         (g)   A schedule for construction, and cost estimates for the
completion of the development including all public and private improvements,
and landscaping;
         (h)   Plans, if any, to dedicate any streets or other property to the
city;
         (i)   A performance bond or other acceptable security and other legal
data to ensure completion of streets, buffer and amenities in accordance with
the accepted plans; and
         (j)   The ratio of pervious to impervious surface areas.
   (G)   TRO development plan criteria. The Planning Commission may not approve
any TRO development unless it has been reviewed by the Architectural Review
Officer (ARO), and meets all of the criteria set forth below:
      (1)   Density of the TRO development shall be limited to no more than ten
dwelling units per acre, calculated on the entire (gross acreage of the)
development site;
      (2)   The plan shall depict a ten-foot minimum side and rear yard
landscaped setback from property lines which abut a commercial use or
commercial zone;
      (3)   The plan shall depict a 15-foot minimum side and rear yard
landscaped setback from property lines where the subject property abuts a
residential use or zoning district;
      (4)   The plan shall depict a two-foot minimum front yard landscaped
setback from the right-of-way (Euclid Avenue);
      (5)   The plan shall depict a minimum of ten feet between structures;
      (6)   Structures fronting on Euclid Avenue shall be no more than 35 feet
in height, measured from the existing pre-development grade on Euclid Avenue to
the peak of the roof, at the front of each dwelling unit; structures not
adjacent to Euclid Avenue shall be no more than 35 feet in height, measured
from the grade established alter the installation of the street and utilities;
      (7)   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of two enclosed parking
spaces, and, in addition, a minimum of two unenclosed parking spaces per unit
available on site. Garage doors shall not face directly onto Euclid Avenue;
      (8)   The architect/artist rendering of buildings and the landscaping
must provide evidence to the Planning Commission that such buildings and
landscaping shall be designed and built in such a manner as to be compatible
with the look and feel of single-family dwelling units, and Planning Commission
will take into consideration the orientation and finishes of all buildings
relative to the surrounding properties; flat roofs are not deemed to be
compatible with the look and feel of single-family dwelling units; therefore
pitched roofs shall be required on all buildings constructed in accordance with
the TRO District;
      (9)   The massing of buildings adjacent to the frontage of Euclid Avenue
shall be controlled such that no more than three units shall be constructed as
one single building, and all buildings adjacent to Euclid Avenue shall have
their architectural front facing toward Euclid Avenue;
      (10)   Architectural features shall incorporate such characteristics and
materials as are normally associated with single-family residential homes, and
must be approved by the ARO as being in character with the surrounding
residential areas; neither exterior insulation finishing system (“EIFS”), nor
aluminum, nor vinyl siding materials shall be permitted;
      (11)   Landscaping shall be installed which creates a physical and visual
buffer from adjoining properties, and for this purpose, a combination of live
plantings shall be planted within the front, side and rear yard setbacks, and
common areas, shall be planted according to acceptable nursery industry
standards; and shall comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   All landscaping materials shall consist of only live plantings,
and shall be installed and maintained according to accepted nursery industry
procedures;
         (b)   Landscaping planted within the side and rear setbacks of the TRO
development site shall create a dense vegetative screen, which shall be equally
effective in winter and summer;
         (c)   Shrubs planted in the side and rear setback areas of the TRO
development site shall be a minimum height of three and one-half feet when
planted, and shall achieve a height of six feet, no later than 24 months after
the initial installation;
         (d)   When the required screening is located along the area extending
from the building to the street, the height shall be consistent with sight
distance from the street for safety purposes;
         (e)   Each shrub shall be planted sufficiently close to the next
shrub, according to nursery industry standards, to provide an effective, dense
screen;
         (f)   Deciduous trees shall be a minimum caliper of three inches at
the time of planting (if deciduous trees are used for screening purposes,
additional materials must be used to create a dense buffer);
         (g)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of eight feet in height at
the time of planting; and
         (h)   Violation of these provisions shall be grounds for the city to
refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy.
      (12)   Air conditioning units and dumpsters must be shielded from view by
suitable fencing and or landscaping as determined reasonable by the ARO;
      (13)   Exterior lighting shall be minimal and limited to that necessary
for safety, and shielding; height and overflow of lighting shall be analyzed
and only approved if it minimizes impact onto adjacent property, and as
determined reasonable by the ARO;
      (14)   Stormwater drainage must be based upon a minimum of 25-year storm
frequency, utilizing on-site absorption and/or temporary detention;
      (15)   The plan shall depict a public sidewalk which shall be maintained
and/or installed parallel with Euclid Avenue wherever the applicant’s property
is adjacent to Euclid Avenue;
      (16)   (a)   Dwelling units within the subject property need not be
located on separate lots or separate units divided by lot lines; and dwelling
units, including garages, may share common walls. Subject property that is
within a Transitional Residential Overlay District may be developed as a
condominium provided the development adheres to the applicable requirements of
the Ohio Revised Code and the requirements of this section. If the developer
intends to subdivide the property, it may request approval for subdivision
either as part of the final development plan approval process or subsequent to
the Planning Commission’s approval of the final development plan. However, the
subdivision of the property shall only be authorized as incidental and
accessory to the requirements for buildings, infrastructure, easements and
other physical features that conform to the requirements and criteria set forth
elsewhere in these Transitional Residential Overlay District regulations.
Therefore, no subdivision of property intended for development pursuant to the
regulations of this section shall be permitted prior to approval of a final
development plan that meets the requirements of this Transitional Residential
Overlay District. The purpose of this requirement is to prohibit the
establishment of any new lot that does not meet the dimensional and other
requirements of the underlying zoning district (including, but not limited to,
minimum area, depth and width), unless the lot is part of a final development
plan approved in accordance with this section.
         (b)   Thus, approval of any lots that are intended to be part of a
Transitional Residential Overlay District is specifically conditioned upon the
lot being developed in accordance with final development plans approved in
accordance with the Transitional Residential Overlay District regulations.
There shall be no zoning certificate, building permit nor any certificate of
occupancy issued for any lot that has been created as part of a Transitional
Residential Overly District unless the improvements are substantially
consistent with the final development plan. Furthermore, all plats depicting a
subdivision of land, in whole or in part, of a final development plan shall
contain thereon an appropriate executed declaration limiting development of
lots to only buildings and improvements depicted on an approved final
development plan.
         (c)   This amendment to this section specifically finds that the lots
depicted on Exhibit A (attached hereto and incorporated as part of the
amendment to this section) do, in fact, comply with the requirements of this
section and may, therefore, be approved for recording as long as the lots
submitted substantially comply with those depicted on Exhibit A.
         (d)   Any and all lots proposed to be created as part of a final
development plan in a Transitional Residential Overlay shall comply with the
following criteria:
            1.   The creation of the lots shall not alter any of the building
layouts or other improvements, including but not limited to roadways,
sidewalks, easements and fences depicted on the applicable final development
plan approved for the Transitional Residential Overlay District by the Planning
Commission;
            2.   The establishment of any and all lots shall not alter or
lessen the responsibility of the homeowners’ association to maintain or
construct the infrastructure and other improvements and grounds that exist
within the common areas of the Transitional Residential Overlay District; and
            3.   No property line proposed or approved on a final development
plan shall intersect with dwelling units except to track a common wall.
      (17)   It is recognized that the unique lots created within the
Transitional Residential Overlay District, in furtherance of the final
development plan, do not meet numerous requirements for lots that may be
created in other residential districts. The lots do not meet minimum
requirements of other lots within the city in residential districts. For
example, these lots within the Transitional Residential District do not meet
frontage requirements, minimum area requirement, minimum setback requirement,
shape requirements and other requirements not specifically named herein which
are required in other residential districts. The approval of lots within the
Transitional Overlay District shall not be construed as permitting or
authorizing any other lots to be approved by variance or by other application
for subdivision of other property not located within this Transitional
Residential Overlay District;
      (18)   While this amendment authorizes the subdivision of property within
the area of a final development plan formed within a Transitional Residential
Overlay District, it is recognized and assumed that the developer may apply for
record plat approval of lots in phases as small as two lots at a time. The City
Manager shall issue any necessary documentation to allow these lots to be
recorded at the County Auditor and Recorders’ offices, provided the record plat
submitted for review is substantially consistent with the lots depicted on
Exhibit A or on any other lots approved in conjunction with any other final
development plan approved within this Transitional Residential Overlay
District; and
      (19)   This division (G) establishes certain setback and landscaping
criteria that must be satisfied by a final development plan. The establishment
of additional interior lot lines do not alter the minimum setbacks and
landscaping requirements set forth in this division (G). The requirements of
division (G) should not be construed to be applied to any interior lots
proposed or created.
   (H)   Application and review. The applicant submitting a TRO development
plan shall, in the application, address all the criteria set forth above. The
applicant may identify certain portions of any criteria if it intends to
supplement the information at a later time. The application shall contain an
acknowledgment by the applicant that Planning Commission shall not be bound nor
shall it be permitted to make a final decision until such time as the
information necessary to satisfy the requirements of each criteria is presented
in sufficient detail. The application shall also provide an acknowledgment by
the applicant that if Planning Commission modifies or composes conditions for
the approval of an application, no final approval shall be granted until
documents or other evidence indicating compliance with the modifications or
conditions has been incorporated into the application, submitted and reviewed
by Planning Commission, before final approval by Planning Commission is
determined.
      (1)   Application procedure.
         (a)   Any person or company intending to apply for approval of a TRO
District development plan shall first schedule a pre-application conference
with the City Manager or his or her designee. At this conference, the
prospective applicant must present in writing to the City Manager a preliminary
proposal for a TRO District development plan.
         (b)   The purpose of the pre-application conference will be to,
generally, evaluate the impact on adjacent areas and neighborhoods and identify
the benefits achieved, such as better use of property, stabilizing future
changes and providing a transition area. This information should also identify
the adjoining property owners and any existing nonconforming uses.
         (c)   Upon completion of the pre-application conference an application
may be filed with the office of the City Manager. The application shall be in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and in such form as approved
by the City Manager. If the application does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter, the applicant shall be notified by the City Manager and no
further consideration of the application shall occur until it is in compliance
with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Public hearing and decision.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application in the format prescribed by this
chapter; the City Manager shall forward the application to the Planning
Commission for consideration. The Planning Commission shall review said TRO
District development plan and shall hold a public hearing on such application.
Notice of such hearing shall be sent to all property owners within 200 feet of
the proposed TRO District development not less than ten days prior to the
scheduled hearing.
         (b)   Subsequent to the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
either approve the TRO District development plan as submitted, approve a
modified plan with conditions, or deny approval of the plan. Five members of
Planning Commission must vote in the affirmative to approve any such
application either as submitted or modified. Approval of this plan shall be
considered approval of a preliminary TRO District development plan. Approval of
the preliminary development plan shall not constitute any authority to proceed
with construction or development. Such approval shall only authorize the
applicant to submit a proposed final development plan.
         (c)   A proposed final TRO District development plan shall be
submitted within six months of the date of the Planning Commission meeting at
which the preliminary plan was approved. The Planning Commission may extend
this period for a reasonable period upon a showing of good cause by the
applicant. The final plan must be substantially consistent with the preliminary
plan in all respects. If the Planning Commission finds that a proposed final
plan of a development area is in substantial accordance with and represents a
detailed version of the preliminary plan, as previously approved, that the
final plan complies with all of the conditions and adjustments which may have
been imposed in the approval of the preliminary plan, that it is in accordance
with the criteria and provisions and purpose of this chapter and this code,
that all agreements, contracts, deed restrictions, dedications, declarations of
ownership and other required documents are in acceptable form and have been
executed, that all fee payments have been made, then the Planning Commission
shall approve such final plan and certify its approval to the City Manager and
City Council. Certification of the approval shall be for informational purposes
only.
         (d)   Following the approval of a final plan, the City Manager shall
issue such permits as are necessary and under his or her jurisdiction, upon
payment of the required fees, and conditioned upon the receipt and approval by
the City Law Director of the homeowners’ association by-laws and the
declarations of covenants and restrictions which shall require the continued
property maintenance of all landscaping material and shall keep them in a
proper neat and orderly appearance free from refuse and debris at all times and
all unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within a one year or by
the next planting period, and shall provide for the maintenance of all
landscaping, screening, mounding, buffering, structures, drives and parking
areas, and buildings; and that failure to do so shall be a violation of this
zoning code enforceable in all ways in law or in equity as any other violation
of the zoning code.
      (3)   Major amendments of the plan. A major amendment of an existing plan
shall require a review and approval of the Planning Commission in the same
manner and with the same requirements imposed by this chapter for approval of
an original TRO District development plan. A major amendment shall include:
         (a)   Any increase in the impervious area coverage in excess of 5% of
the amount approved in the original plan;
         (b)   The enlargement of any building from the size originally
approved, or the consolidation of use of adjoining TRO District development
plans;
         (c)   A change in the arrangement or massing of buildings or any
changes in the use of building spaces designated on the original development
plan;
         (d)   An increase in the number of residential units;
         (e)   A change in the vehicular circulation or the placement or
arrangement of parking spaces;
         (f)   Any significant reduction in the effectiveness of open spaces,
landscape buffers and edges; and
         (g)   Any significant change in the design elevations, roof pitch,
materials or massing of the buildings.
      (4)   Minor amendments of the plan. A TRO District development plan must
be approved by the City Manager and the ARO. In any event, all applications for
minor amendments shall be in writing and all actions of the City Manager and
ARO shall be documented. Either official may refer the request for approval of
a minor amendment to the Planning Commission if the official determines that
the request should be considered a major amendment. Minor amendments shall
include:
         (a)   Internal changes to buildings and structures;
         (b)   Changes to the front of a building;
         (c)   Changes to signs which are not being enlarged and are consistent
with what was previously approved by the Planning Commission;
         (d)   Amendments to the drainage pattern; and
         (e)   Replacement of existing lighting provided it remains effectively
shielded.
      (5)   Contingent-approval permitted. In circumstances where an applicant
needs a variance from the requirements of this code, the Planning Commission
may provide contingent-approval of a final application for a development plan.
Such contingent-approval shall mean their approval of the final application is
subject to the applicant obtaining any required variance(s) from the Board of
Zoning Appeals. If the Planning Commission provides contingent-approval of a
final application and the Board of Zoning Appeals subsequently denies the
applicant’s requested variance(s), said denial shall constitute a rejection of
the final application.
      (6)   Appeals. Pursuant to this section, if the Planning Commission, City
Manager or ARO deny an applicant’s request for approval of a development plan
or an amendment to a previously-approved development plan, such applicant may
appeal the decision denying their request to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   Timing of appeal. The applicant appealing the decision must
provide notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the Planning
Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the Planning
Commission’s provision of written notification of its denial to the applicant.
         (b)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a
public hearing, evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review
applied by the Planning Commission to the initial conditional use application,
within 60 days of receiving applicant’s notice of appeal.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.66)
RESIDENTIAL-SCALE BUSINESS OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 150.140 RESIDENTIAL-SCALE BUSINESS OVERLAY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Sections
150.140 through
150.164 of this code shall apply to the Residential-Scale Business Overlay
District and shall be referred to herein as the “RSBOD Regulations”.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.67; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.141 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The Residential-Scale Business Overlay District is shown on the official
zoning map.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.68; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.142 STANDARD APPLICABILITY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4320.png]
   Figure 20: Residential-Scale Business Overlay District-Official Zoning Map
   All properties in the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District (“the
district”) in
Figure 20 shall be subject to the RSBOD. Where the standards in the
Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations are in conflict with
other sections of the code, the standards in the RSBOD regulations shall
control. As an overlay district, the RSBOD regulations shall apply to the
properties in the district in addition to the standards and requirements that
apply to properties in the underlying zoning district. Where the standards are
in discrepancy, the more stringent shall control.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.69; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.143 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Residential-Scale Business District Overlay
standards are established in order to impose a specific design review criterion
for both rehabilitation and new construction projects in the areas contained in
the overlay district.
   (B)   Therefore, the purpose of the RSBOD regulations are to:
      (1)   Maintain a residential character for a portion of the city’s
business district;
      (2)   Maintain a “small town” character in which a mix of businesses can
thrive and be considered a destination spot to residents of the city;
      (3)   Protect the character and quality of life for neighboring
residential areas;
      (4)   Guide reuse and adaptation of residential structures and sites as
used for business purposes;
      (5)   Create aesthetically cohesive development in the perimeter
transition areas between the Downtown District (B-1) and adjacent residential
districts; and
      (6)   Provide the basis for consistency and objective decision making by
establishing criteria to be used by the City Manager or his or her designee,
the Architectural Review Officer (ARO), and Planning Commission when evaluating
proposed development.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.70; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.144 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations are intended to
provide guidance to property owners and city officials in the general aesthetic
and functional improvement of the city’s Downtown District (B-1). These
regulations are intended to guide community investment. The following review
procedure is established to identify the extent to which a project must comply
with the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.71; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.145 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A zoning permit shall be obtained before conducting any exterior work.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.72; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.146 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Any modification, alteration or enhancement of a site or structure
exterior within the district shall require a zoning permit.
   (B)   Projects identified by the City Manager or his or her designee as
“essentially minor” shall be granted a zoning and building permit with
administrative approval, whereas more extensive projects shall be subject to
review and approval of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Stage 1: initial application. The purpose of Stage 1 is for the
City Manager or his or her designee to determine whether proposed construction
(including renovation, repair, maintenance or other similar activities) shall
be reviewed administratively as an “essentially minor” application or by the
Planning Commission. A pre-application meeting is recommended with the City
Manager or his or her designee to determine the submission requirements. See
division (B)(5) of this section.
         (a)   Review. The City Manager or his or her designee shall review the
proposed construction and shall consult with the Architectural Review Officer
(ARO) before he or she makes the decision whether the proposed construction is
essentially minor.
         (b)   Essentially minor designation. Construction shall be deemed
(designated) essentially minor if it, when completed, will have primarily
preserved the use, function, form, scale and accessory uses that existed prior
to the construction.
         (c)   Stage 1A: determination of modification type. The following
factors shall be weighed and considered in determining whether the construction
is essentially minor.
            1.   Will the proposed construction significantly alter the
exterior appearance of the existing building or site design in one or more of
the following ways?
               a.   Height;
               b.   Setbacks;
               c.   Footprint;
               d.   Entrance;
               e.   Fenestration;
               f.   Envelope (volume);
               g.   Exterior materials or colors; and
               h.   Landscaping or parking.
            2.   Will the construction essentially preserve the form and use of
the existing building and site?
            3.   Is the estimated cost of the construction to the exterior of
the building and site sufficient to justify that the modifications be
compatible with the purpose of the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District
Regulations?
         (d)   Stage 1B: determination of modification magnitude.
            1.   For the City Manager or his or her designee to determine that
a project is essentially minor, management must find that:
               a.   The construction will not increase the dimensions of a
building or structure by more than 10% of the square footage of the existing
building or structure, exclusive of the alteration or expansion;
               b.   The project will not involve additional land other than the
lot of record;
               c.   The cost of the exterior renovation of the structure does
not exceed 25% of the assessed value of the building or structure to be
altered, prior to the renovations; and
               d.   The alterations do not require dimensional variances from
the RSBOD regulations.
            2.   If the City Manager or his or her designee determines that the
construction is essentially minor, he or she shall so certify in writing. A
file containing the certification, copies of the proposed construction and
staff comments and recommendations shall be assembled and retained for not less
than five years after completion of the proposed construction.
            3.   For the purposes of the RSBOD regulations, it shall be
presumed that any additional construction proposed within five years of an
essentially minor certification will not qualify as essentially minor. The
intent of this presumption is to prevent or discourage circumvention of
ultimate design guidelines of the RSBOD regulations through the cumulative
effect of multiple minor improvements.
         (e)   Stage IC: administrative review application. Once a project has
been certified essentially minor, the applicant may apply for a zoning and
building permit without requesting approval of the Planning Commission.
However, the application shall be reviewed for specific compliance with
applicable sections of the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District
regulations and deemed in compliance by the City Manager or his or her
designee, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (2)   Stage 2: Planning Commission review application. In the event the
City Manager or his or her designee does not find an application to be
essentially minor or in conformance with the standards the RSBOD Regulations,
the City Manager or his or her designee shall make the determination that the
application must be reviewed and approved by Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall review the application for appropriateness and equivalency to
the intent and purpose of the RSBOD regulations. The Planning Commission may
approve an equivalency or modification of a requirement if they make a finding
that the effect of the proposed submission is consistent with the intent and
purpose of the RSBOD regulations. The equivalency finding shall be part of the
official record of approval and issuance of the certificate of appropriateness
and the zoning permit.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the Planning
Commission must approve proposed construction or modification of buildings
within the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District that has not been
certified as essentially minor by the City Manager or his or her designee.
Implicit in such an application is that an essentially minor certification has
not been issued. Application to and review by the Planning Commission shall be
evaluated in the same manner whether or not an essentially minor certification
has been sought (and denied).
         (b)   As they are form based, the regulations for the Residential-
Scale Business Overlay District include both dimensional aesthetic standards.
Review for substantial or equivalent compliance with both types of standards
shall be required for zoning approval and issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   Stage 3: dimensional review.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for proposed construction within
the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District, the City Manager or his or her
designee shall review and determine dimensional compliance with these
standards. This shall include identification of any proposed reconstruction of
existing buildings that are dimensionally nonconforming. Variances that are
identified shall be set forth in a report to Planning Commission. The notice
and process of review shall be the same as required for other dimensional
variances.
         (b)   Planning Commission shall weigh and consider the Duncan Factors
for each dimensional variance identified.
      (4)   Stage 4: design review of aesthetic standards.
         (a)   The ARO shall review and make recommendations to the Planning
Commission and evaluate the proposal for reasonable compliance with the overall
aesthetic guidelines.
         (b)   The standard of compliance is intended to be “reasonable” rather
than “strict” to allow for design review that is flexible for both the
applicant and city to achieve a product that is appropriate for the district.
         (c)   The standard of compliance with the aesthetic guidelines should
be the determination of Planning Commission stating that the proposed
construction achieves a significant compatibility with the aesthetic guidelines
set forth in the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District regulations.
         (d)   The Planning Commission should find that the proposed
construction avoids a direct conflict with the overall images, impressions and
net impact of buildings and accessory structures including parking, landscaping
and lighting described in the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District
regulations.
         (e)   Planning Commission shall refrain from imposing additional
aesthetic requirements if the proposed construction does substantially resemble
the examples set forth in the Residential-Scale Business Overlay District
regulations. Aesthetic guidelines are inherently subjective and, therefore, the
Planning Commission shall endeavor to adhere to the guidelines as they are
substantially expressed in these regulations.
         (f)   It is recognized that it is unlikely and unreasonable to require
a building to comply with all examples in the regulations because the
regulations anticipate variation in final appearances from building to
building.
         (g)   The Planning Commission shall make findings that the
application:
            1.   Conforms in all pertinent respects to the requirements
contained in the RSBOD regulations;
            2.   Adequate provision is made for safe and efficient pedestrian
and vehicular circulation within the site and to adjacent property;
            3.   The development has adequate public services and open spaces;
            4.   The development provides adequate lighting for safe and
convenient use of the streets, walkways, driveways and parking areas without
unnecessarily spilling or emitting light into adjacent properties; and
            5.   The landscape plan will enhance the principal building and
site and maintain existing trees where appropriate; buffer adjacent
incompatible uses; break up large expanses of pavement with plant material; and
provide appropriate plant materials for the buildings, site and climate.
         (h)   The approval by Planning Commission shall not be construed to
imply compliance with all other local, state and federal laws and regulations.
         (i)   In order to receive Planning Commission approval a majority of
Planning Commission members must vote affirmatively that the proposed
construction complies with aesthetic guidelines of the district.
      (5)   Submission requirements. The following materials should be
submitted with each application.
         (a)   Initial application. Applicants shall provide the following
information and materials:
            1.   A conceptual site plan at a minimum scale of one-inch equals
50 feet showing the size and location of all existing and proposed structures,
indicating dimensions and square footage. The site plan shall also show the
location of access and drive aisles, and the number of parking spaces;
            2.   Photographs or illustrations showing all four elevations of
existing and proposed buildings;
            3.   An itemized cost estimate for the new construction or
alterations; and
            4.   An external finish building materials and colors list, with
samples or examples of external finishes.
         (b)   Final application.
            1.   All applications for Planning Commission or administrative
review for zoning approval or building permits shall include:
               a.   A survey by a registered engineer;
               b.   A site plan depicting the exact dimensions of the site and
all buildings, structures and parking areas;
               c.   A landscaping plan showing the location and type of all
proposed landscape areas, plantings and screening/buffering;
               d.   A signage plan showing the location, size and type of all
signs, illustrations or elevations showing the proposed appearance of all
signs;
               e.   A lighting plan showing the location, type, height and
intensity and photometric of all lighting;
               f.   Building plans showing general dimensions, materials and
uses;
               g.   Exterior building elevations showing the proposed
appearance of the building, including a proposed materials and color list and
all exterior utility housings, junctions and other exterior duct work or
conduits attached to a structure; and
               h.   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Manager
or his or her designee; Architectural Review Officer or Planning Commission to
determine compliance with the RSBOD Regulations.
            2.   In the case of a project with an essentially minor
certificate, the City Manager or his or her designee may waive any of the above
submission requirements that he or she deems unnecessary for the comprehensive
review of the proposed project.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.73; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.147 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   For the purpose of the RSBOD regulations, certain terms are defined
as follows.
      (2)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural;
words in the plural include the singular; the word “structure” includes
buildings; the word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directive: the
word “should” is directive; the word “may” is permissive; and the word “lot”
includes plot, parcel or site.
   (B)   Definitions. Included in definitions in §
150.001.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.74; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.148 PURPOSES AND USES.
   (A)   The primary purpose of this overlay district is to provide a
residential-scale environment for business uses at the perimeter of the city’s
central business district to transition from the Downtown District (B-1) to the
adjacent residential areas.
   (B)   The permitted and conditional uses will be subject to those applicable
to the underlying business district.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.75; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.149 PERMITTED/CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Business B-3 District uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Offices for professional use such as accountants, attorneys,
counseling, consulting, doctors, architects, dentists, engineers, opticians,
real estate, insurance and manufacturers’ representatives;
         (b)   Commercial uses such as retail, restaurants, bars, banks, media
studios, and dry cleaners (where dry cleaning is not done on-site) and bakeries
employing less than six bakers;
         (c)   Libraries, museums, theaters;
         (d)   Daycares, preschools, nursery schools and childcare businesses;
         (e)   Products retailed and sold on the premises may be manufactured,
finished or assembled on the premises provided that such products are of the
type sold primarily to the general or consumer public at retail and in
relatively small quantities for sale;
         (f)   Facilities for boarding only small animals that are not closer
than 200 feet to any residence or business district; and
         (g)   No use that is obnoxious or offensive by reason of the emission
of odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes, water-carried waste, noise or vibration in
connection therewith.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Residential units provided they are located on second or third
stories of mixed-use buildings and do not exceed 12 units per acre or more than
six units per structure. The minimum square footage for a single bedroom unit
shall be 900 square feet and 700 for a studio;
      (2)   Outdoor dining per §
150.071; and
      (3)   Outdoor sales may be permitted for temporary periods seasonally or
on a daily basis with displays. Daily set up and indoor storage may be
required. Permanent outdoor sales areas shall be integrated into the building
and may include tables under awnings for the display of produce or goods.
(Ord. 10-23, passed 2-14-2011; Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.76; Ord. 21-
09, passed 11-22- 2021)
§ 150.150 PURPOSE OF ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS IN RSBOD.
   To promote the maintenance, repair and infill of buildings designed and
constructed to support and enhance the eclectic residential character
traditionally associated with the city’s Residential-Scale Business Overlay,
through building scale and mass, entries, fenestration, exterior materials and
architectural details.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.77; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.151 BUILDING SCALE AND MASSING.
   (A)   Purpose. To promote the design and construction of buildings that
support the transition from the most intense development in the Downtown
District (B-1) to the adjacent residential areas. These standards will support
this purpose through building scale and mass, entries roof forms, and
articulation, materials and architectural details which are compatible with a
residential-scale and character. Additionally, these regulations will help
guide development and redevelopment when adjacent to residential areas.
   (B)   Size and scale. Buildings in this area should be no larger than 5,000
square feet in size. Buildings in this area shall have a consistent residential
scale and theme that should be carried throughout the design of the building.
   (C)   Building height. Buildings shall not be taller than 45 feet in height.
Mid-point of gable not to exceed 35 feet.
   (D)   Horizontal articulation.
      (1)   Most of the existing residential structures are less than 35 feet
in width and located on smaller narrow lots. The buildings are oriented with
the narrow facade parallel to the street. This pattern shall be maintained.
      (2)    When the facade paralleling the street is wider than 30 feet, the
facade should be horizontally broken up with recess or setback variations,
architectural detailing, variation in roof height, application of compatible
building materials or application of a porch or dormers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4322.png]
 
   Figure 21: Example of a larger building along Laurel Avenue with appropriate
articulation; a regular fenestration pattern which reflects the patterns
evident in the existing residential structures can also add horizontal
articulation to a building
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4324.png]
   Figure 22: This newer structure incorporates the regular window placement
pattern of a traditional colonial style architecture; this regular pattern is
consistent with the residential character of this area
   (E)   Vertical articulation.
      (1)   Changes in vertical mass shall be used in an architecturally
appropriate way to add interest and reduce the appearance of building height
and bulk.
      (2)   Buildings shall have a clearly defined base or foundation, and roof
edges so that the facade has a distinct base, middle and top at a scale that
relates to the individual person and maintains the residential character of the
district. The use of a combination of the following architectural elements is
encouraged to produce vertical articulation.
         (a)   The base of a building should include a strong foundation
material, entry areas, stoops, porches and stairs or ramps.
         (b)   The middle of a building’s facade should include windows, doors,
primary building material, pillars, columns, alcoves, balconies and window
boxes, awnings.
         (c)   The top of a building’s facade should include cornice lines,
trim, soldier courses, overhanging eaves, gables, cupolas, dormers, brackets,
corbels, fenestration and other roof line and gable appropriate elements.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.78; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.152 ROOF FORMS.
   (A)   Pitched roof forms promote the residential character desired and shall
be the preferred roof form for new buildings or portions thereof.
   (B)   Appropriate pitched roof forms for structures in this district
include:
      (1)   Gables (front or side);
      (2)   Gabled with gabled or shed dormers;
      (3)   Compound gabled or double gabled;
      (4)   Hipped; or
      (5)   Combinations of any of these forms.
   (C)   Gambrel, mansard and flat roofs shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Full shed roofs on the primary structure are prohibited; however, a
shed roof may be used in limited application for dormers, portions of roofs or
rear portions of roofs. Shed roof forms may also be employed on accessory
buildings under 500 square feet.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.79; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.153 ENTRIES.
   (A)   Residential character. The residential character of the building in
this district is supported by the reuse and adaption of residential buildings
to accommodate business uses. Much of the residential character is found in the
front facades and entries of the buildings.
   (B)   Standards. The following standards are intended to maintain a
residential character to the entrances and front facades.
      (1)   Front or primary facades of buildings shall be designed to have a
residential appearance.
      (2)   Entrances in existing residential structures converted to business
uses should not be altered, enclosed or moved to maintain a residential
appearance from the street.
      (3)   Existing front facades, doors and their surrounds should be
repaired and retained, if possible. If an old door or entrance feature has
deteriorated beyond repair, the replacement should be substantially similar to
the original.
      (4)   The front entrance normally is the focal point of the facade, and
should be emphasized through the use or maintenance of covered stoops or
porches.
      (5)   For business uses, side or secondary entrances may be indicated as
the primary customer entrance through signage, architectural treatment,
lighting and proximity to parking.
      (6)   Use of fully glazed, metal framed doors as entrances is prohibited.
   (C)   Infill/new buildings. New buildings constructed in the district should
consider the traditional components of residential architecture in the design
of the front facade and entrances.
   (D)   Conversion. When converting a residential structure to a business use
the appearance of existing residential facade and entries shall be maintained
on the primary facade. Entries on the side or rear of the structure may be
established as the primary entrance from the parking lot.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.80; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.154 FENESTRATION (WINDOWS AND DOORS).
   (A)   The placement, size and type of windows help define a building’s
facade and character.
   (B)   With the purpose to maintain a residential character the following
standards should apply.
      (1)   Scale and proportion.
         (a)   Windows shall not be installed to run from finished floor on the
front facade. An 18 inch kneewall constructed of brick, stone, wood or fiber
cement siding shall stand between the sill of the window and finished floor.
         (b)   Windows should be proportional to the overall facade of the
building. A window’s proportions should generally be vertical with the height
being approximately two times the width of the window; however, bay windows or
picture windows may be larger and have more of a horizontal proportion to
create variation.
         (c)   Divided-light windows are preferred.
         (d)   The scale and design of the window shall support and be
compatible with the architectural style of the structure.
         (e)   Horizontally proportioned windows are encouraged to be divided
into vertically proportioned components either through multi-part windows or
other divided lights.
      (2)   Patterns and rhythms. Generally, window openings or groups of
windows within a row of windows should be equidistant from one to another to
create a regular pattern.
         (a)   Windows may be installed in any pattern depending on the
architectural layout of the facade.
         (b)   Upper story windows should reinforce or support the window
pattern on the first floor. When two full rows of windows are used on a facade
the hypothetical rectangle that encompasses all first story windows and doors
must be the same width as that of a rectangle that encompasses all second story
windows.
         (c)   All windows within a row shall be aligned at a consistent top
line. Variation may be employed for bay windows or other variations that add a
focal point to the facade.
      (3)   Glazing.
         (a)   Windows and glazing shall not exceed 35% of the total area of
the facade. Fully glazed or glass facades shall be prohibited on front facades
of buildings.
         (b)   Fully opaque glazing or mirrored glazing is prohibited on front
facades.
         (c)   Stained, frosted or textured glass may be used in front facades
for decoration or privacy.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.81; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.155 EXTERIOR FINISH MATERIALS AND COLORS.
   (A)   Purpose. Exterior finish materials and colors set the character of an
individual building and when applied throughout a district can lend
cohesiveness and a specific feel to the area. These standards are intended to
achieve unity of design through compatible materials and colors. The purpose of
the following standards is to promote high quality, sustainable materials that
will contribute to a consistent character while allowing for variation.
Buildings shall be finished with high-quality, low maintenance, durable,
sustainable and attractive natural or manufactured materials. Material
requirements may vary on the primary facades or facades parallel to public
rights-of-way and the secondary or screened facades.
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Purpose. Material requirements may vary from the primary or visible
facades to the secondary or screened facades. Other new materials meeting the
purpose of these standards may be approved by the Planning Commission or
Architectural Review Officer on a case-by-case basis as a primary or accent
building material. Permitted and prohibited materials for the primary and
secondary facade are listed in Table 150-11.
      (2)   Permitted primary materials.
         (a)   The primary material must make up at least 50% of the exterior
covering on the primary facades of a building.
         (b)   The total area covered by permitted primary materials shall be
calculated from the area of the visible plane measuring the area from grade to
upper building limits, exclusive of the area occupied by visible roof surfaces.
      (3)   Accents and detailing.
         (a)   Accent materials and colors shall be applied as appropriate to
the facade surface.
         (b)   Detailing, trim, windows, doors and glazing may constitute the
remaining area of the facade not occupied by the primary or accent material.
         (c)   All accents and details shall be permitted and prohibited as
defined in Table 150-11.
Table 150-11
Permitted and Prohibited Materials
Materials Primary Facade Secondary Facade
Table 150-11
Permitted and Prohibited Materials
Materials                                     Primary Facade Secondary Facade
Aluminum siding                               X              X
Asphalt or fiberglass shingles                R              R
Brick applique                                X              X
Brick/brick veneers                           P, A, T        P, A, T
Cast or wrought metal                         A, T           A, T
Cast stone                                    P, A, T        P, A, T
Concrete masonry unit                         X              X
Cut or rusticated stone                       P, A, T        P, A, T
EIFS                                          X              X
Fiber cement (clapboard, shingles, scallops,  P, A, T        P, A, T
trims, stones or bricks)
Glazed brick or glass tiles                   A, T           A, T
Metal trims or flashings (aluminum, steel,    A, T           A, T
copper, brass, iron)
Natural stone                                 P, A, T        P, A, T
PVC (poly vinyl carbonate)                    A, T           A, T
Reflective materials (mirrored glass, chrome) X              X
Slate (real or faux)                          R              R
Standing seam metal (aluminum, copper steel)  R              R
Stucco (traditionally applied)                P, A           P, A
Terra-cotta                                   A, T, R        A, T, R
Vinyl siding                                  X              X
Wood (clapboard, shingles, scallops, trims)   P, A, T        P, A, T
Notes:
P = Permitted material
A = Accent material
T = Trim material
R = Visible roofing
X = Prohibited
 
      (4)   Conditional or new materials. Modern manufactured materials that
create the appearance of permitted materials such as fiber cement products,
architectural panels or cast stone may be considered appropriate. Other
materials not listed as prohibited may be considered by the Planning Commission
on a case-by-case basis as a primary or accent building material.
      (5)   Prohibited materials. Exterior covering materials that are
prohibited include vinyl, aluminum or steel siding, corrugated steel and highly
reflective materials such as mirrored glass or chrome, or fully glazed facades.
   (C)   Colors.
      (1)   Permitted. The preferred base colors used on new or rehabilitated
buildings should be the natural color of the material in the case of brick or
stone. In the case of painted or other synthetic materials of a neutral muted
palette, deep saturated hues or muted pastels and whites should be used.
Brighter more vivid colors should be reserved for accents.
      (2)   Prohibited. No fluorescent, neon, day-glow or reflective colors
shall be used.
   (D)   Combinations of materials and colors. Each building facade shall be
limited to one primary material. Accent materials; additional materials may be
used for trims based on the material most appropriate for the trim’s location
and purpose. When surfaces are painted, colored or otherwise do not correspond
to the material, each building facade shall be limited to a combination of no
more than four coordinated or complementary color schemes.
   (E)   Transitions of materials.
      (1)   Transition from one material to another on the same facade shall be
completed either with appropriate trim or as an accent with variations such as
quoining or reveals based on material thickness.
      (2)   Transition in materials from one facade to another shall be made at
an inside corner or extended a minimum of five feet onto the secondary facade.
   (F)   Siding repairs or replacement.
      (1)   Repairs or replacement to exterior building materials or siding
should be completed with comparable materials to those being replaced.
Replacement materials shall follow the permitted material and color standards.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply when considering siding
replacement on an existing structure.
         (a)   New or replacement siding shall not be applied over damaged or
rotten materials. All deteriorated materials must first be repaired or replaced
with similar materials.
         (b)   New or replacement siding shall match the existing materials in
size, profile, scale, finish and articulation.
      (3)   New siding shall not cause irreversible damage or obscure the
architectural features, trim or detail of the building.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.82; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.156 AWNINGS OR FABRIC CANOPIES.
   Awnings or fabric canopies are prohibited. All overhangs should be
constructed of durable roofing materials with adequate architectural supports.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.83; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.157 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Rooftop equipment. Rooftop equipment is prohibited subject to
applicable Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations.
   (B)   Ground mounted equipment and service structures.
      (1)   All service structures shall be screened from public view or
adjacent residential areas. For the purposes of this section, services
structures shall include, but not be limited to, propane tanks, dumpsters. HVAC
equipment, electrical transformers, utility vaults extending above grade and
other equipment or elements providing service to a building or a site.
Structures may be grouped together; however, screening height shall be based
upon the tallest of the structures.
      (2)   Screening shall consist of the following:
         (a)   A continuous planting, hedge, fence, wall or earthen mound shall
be built to enclose any service structure on all sides unless such structure
must be frequently moved or accessed, in which case screening on all but one
side is required;
         (b)   Dumpsters shall be screened by a wood, brick or stone wall and
have wood doors; and
         (c)   The ARO may recommend and the Planning Commission may approve
other types of screening materials on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Utility housing.
      (1)   Utility housings shall be installed on the side or rear of
structures whenever possible.
      (2)   All utility housings, junctions and other exterior duct work or
conduits attached to a structure shall be painted or permanently colored to
match the basic building material color on which it is located to reduce the
impact of its appearance unless it can successfully be integrated with other
trim or detailing in a manner that enhances the architectural style of the
structure.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.84; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.158 PURPOSE OF SITE STANDARDS IN RSBOD.
   This district should serve as a transition from the more intense land uses
of the Downtown District (B-1) to the less intense land uses of the surrounding
residential neighborhoods. Although more buildings are used for business
purposes than for residential purposes, the residential character of the
district should be maintained and a pedestrian friendly walkable environment
should be encouraged. The following site standards will provide guidance for
the lot dimensions, layout and placement of site features in a manner
consistent with this purpose.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.85; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.159 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size shall be regulated by the underlying zoning district
regulations.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.86; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.160 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Purpose. Most of the existing structures are setback from the sidewalk
and street at least ten feet with most being set considerably further back
allowing for medium to large front yards which emphasizes the history of this
area as a residential area. As the intent is to maintain an urban form
compatible with residential development while allowing for business uses the
purpose of the setbacks is to maintain front yards, and clear separations
between buildings.
   (B)   Setbacks. Setbacks are established to provide adequate access to
various parts of individual properties, to provide adequate space for ingress
and egress, and to maintain a residential character within the district.
 
Table 150-12
Setbacks
         Front Yard            Side Yard               Rear Yard
         Minimum of 5 ft. from 5 ft. from any side lot 5 ft. from rear lot line
Building sidewalk edge         line                    10 ft. from a single-
                                                       family residential zone
Parking  Minimum 5 ft. from    5 ft. from any side lot 5 ft. from any rear lot
         sidewalk              line                    line
 
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.87; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.161 PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose. Parking for business on adapted residential lots can be a
challenge. Surface parking shall be designed in a way to reduce its visual
impact, improve accessibility and accommodate parking for local businesses
without excessive impact on adjacent residential areas.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Parking should be located to the side or rear of buildings when it
can be effectively screened from adjacent residential uses through the use of
walls, fences and/or landscaping.
      (2)   If a site is too narrow or shallow to effectively provide parking
to the side of the building, the required parking spaces can be provided
between the street and the building, but the visual impact shall be softened
through the use of landscaping. See
Table 150-13 for buffer yard type.
   (C)   Parking standards.
      (1)   Minimum number of required parking spaces by use shall be as
established under this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum size for a standard perpendicular parking stall shall be
162 square feet with a width of nine feet and a length of 18 feet.
      (3)   Designated drive aisles shall be 12 feet in width for one-way
directional traffic and a minimum of 24 feet for two-way directional traffic.
      (4)   All parking spaces shall be clearly marked with white pavement
markings and markings shall be maintained.
      (5)   All paved parking areas shall be bordered by a minimum of a four-
inch curb, or wheel stops.
   (D)   Shared parking provision. Shared parking is encouraged and permitted
if the multiple uses that the shared parking will benefit can cooperatively
establish and operate the facilities. A portion of the required parking spaces
per this chapter may be located on an adjacent or nearby property in the
district if the parking area complies with the following standards.
      (1)   Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities
shall not be located in an off-site parking facility.
      (2)   Public, shared or off-site parking shall not be permitted on a
vacant lot in a residential zoning district unless permitted by the Planning
Commission as part of site plan approval.
      (3)   Shared or off-site parking areas shall adhere to the regulations of
the same or a more intensive zoning classification than that required for the
use served.
      (4)   In the event that a shared or off-site parking area is not under
the same ownership as the principal use served, a written parking agreement
shall be submitted to the city in a recordable format and recorded with the
county within 30 days of approval.
      (5)   No shared or off-site parking space shall be located more than 600
feet from the primary entrance of the use served, measured along the shortest
legal, practical walking route. This route may include crossing a right-of way
provided it uses a legal crosswalk. This distance may be waived by the Planning
Commission.
      (6)   The applicant shall have the burden of proof for reduction of the
total number of parking spaces and shall document and submit information
substantiating their request. Shared or off-site parking may be approved if:
         (a)   A sufficient number of spaces is provided to meet the highest
demand of the participating uses;
         (b)   Evidence has been submitted by the parties operating the shared
parking facility, to the satisfaction of the City Manager or his or her
designee and development, documenting the nature of uses and the times when the
individual uses will operate so as to demonstrate the lack of potential
conflict between them;
         (c)   Shared or off-site parking shall not account for more than 75%
of the required parking spaces as established under this chapter;
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall review and approve all shared or
off-site parking facility plans, and may place such conditions upon such plans
as it deems necessary to ensure that adequate off-street parking spaces will be
provided for all involved uses. Any violations of these conditions will nullify
the approved shared parking facilities plan and shall be deemed a violation of
the RSBOD regulations; and
         (e)   Any change in use of the activities served by a shared or off-
site parking facility will be deemed an amendment to the shared or off-site
parking facility plan and will require Planning Commission review and approval.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.88; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.162 VEHICULAR ACCESS.
   (A)   Twelve feet of width for vehicular access shall be permitted for each
40 feet of lot frontage on Laurel Avenue or Camargo Roads.
   (B)   One vehicular access point shall be permitted on each lot of record
regardless of total width.
   (C)   No drive aisle or curb cut access point shall exceed 24 feet in width
plus appropriate flairs. The frontage of a lot shall not be entirely paved and
shall employ raised curbs to prevent vehicles from turning in at various
points.
   (D)   No more than two access points or curb cuts shall be permitted for any
individual property.
   (E)   When possible, access to parking or loading areas is encouraged to be
provided via Railroad Avenue. Access from the alley-like Railroad Avenue can
improve circulation and reduce the impact of curb cuts on pedestrian movement
along public sidewalks on Laurel Avenue.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.89; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.163 LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   Purpose. Landscaping and buffering soften the appearance of urban
environments, allow for pervious surfaces in a densely developed area, assist
in stormwater runoff and reduce temperatures through microclimates. The purpose
of these standards is to promote landscaping and buffering that is compatible
with the character of the district and buffers residential uses from the more
intense site activity on commercial properties.
   (B)   Streetscaping. A minimum of a six-foot wide sidewalk area shall be
provided between the curb and the private property line. When possible this
area should include a two-foot wide planting strip, and a four-foot wide paved
sidewalk. In locations where this does not already exist, it should be
installed.
   (C)   Front yard.
      (1)   All unpaved areas between the building and the front property line
shall be stabilized and maintained with lawn, vegetative groundcover or
planting beds.
      (2)   The use of hardy ornamental grasses, perennials, shrubs and trees
is encouraged.
      (3)   Fences and walls, including retaining or other walls, constructed
in front yards shall be no more than three feet in height.
   (D)   Side and rear yard buffering when adjacent to residential use.
      (1)   Requirements. Landscaping, buffering and screening shall be
provided in side and rear yards in accordance with the following chart and
buffer yard types.
Table 150-13
Buffer Yard Requirements
When the site condition to be buffered is: When the adjacent use is:
Table 150-13
Buffer Yard Requirements
                When the adjacent use is:
When the site                           Business No  Business     Public Right-
condition to be Residential Residential Parking,     Parking,     of-W ay/
buffered is:    Rear Yard   Side Yard   Utilities or Utilities or Sidewalk or
                                        Service      Service      Road
                                        Entrance     Entrances
Front yard      D           D           D            D            D
parking
Rear yard no
parking,
utilities or    B or C      B or C      B            None         None
service
entrances
Rear yard
parking,
utilities or    A           A           None         None         B
service
entrances
Side yard no    B, C        B, C        None         None         None
parking
Side yard
parking
utilities or    A           A           B or C       B or C       B or D
service
entrances
 
      (2)   Types. See
Table 150-13 for buffer yard requirements.
         (a)   Buffer A (maximum screening).
            1.   A buffer yard less than five feet in width.
            2.   A fully opaque structural element from grade to six feet in
height. The opaque screening element may be a wooden privacy fence, brick or
stone wall.
         (b)   Buffer B (moderate screening).
            1.   A buffer yard a minimum of five feet in width.
            2.   A 70% opaque element between grade and four feet. The
screening element may be a wooden fence, or brick or stone wall, earthen berm
or evergreen shrubs.
            3.   Shade or ornamental trees spaced 20 feet on center.
         (c)   Buffer C (moderate buffer).
            1.   A buffer yard a minimum of five feet in width.
            2.   A 30% opaque elements between grade and four feet. Element may
include ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubs, ornamental perennials or grasses,
picket or split rail fences, wrought iron fences or combination knee walls and
decorative metal work.
            3.   Shade or ornamental deciduous trees planted in groupings no
more than 20 feet on center.
         (d)   Buffer D (ROW parking screening).
            1.   A buffer yard a minimum of five feet in width.
            2.   A 100% opaque element between grade and three feet. The
element may include any combination of a dense evergreen shrub, a decorative
wall, permanently installed planting boxes or a wooden fence or brick or stone
wall.
   (E)   Landscaping materials and maintenance. The proposed landscape
materials should complement the existing trees on site or on adjacent sites if
none exist on site, as well as the development’s general design and
architecture. These regulations apply to all landscaping and landscaping
materials installed as part of the requirements of these standards.
      (1)   Types. Plant types shall be reviewed by the ARO and approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Plants. Plant materials used in conformance with provision of the
RSBOD regulations shall conform to the current standards of the American
Association of Nurserymen and shall have passed any inspections required under
state regulations. Artificial plants are prohibited. All plant materials shall
be living and shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Deciduous trees.
            1.   Trees which normally shed their leaves in the fall shall have
a minimum caliper of two inches, and five feet tall at installation, measured
at finished grade, and be species of small, medium or large maturity size in
areas where there is not a visibility concern.
            2.   In areas with visibility concerns, the trees shall be species
of medium to large maturity size, which can eventually maintain five feet of
branch free trunk with a minimum two-inch caliper.
            3.   Trees of species with roots that are known to cause damage to
public roadways or other public works shall not be planted closer than 15 feet
to such public works.
            4.   Prohibited trees shall include any species prohibited by the
city.
         (b)   Evergreen trees. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five feet
high at the time of planting, measured from the top mass of the tree (not the
tallest leader).
      (3)   Maintenance and installation.
         (a)   All landscaping materials shall be installed in a sound,
workmanship-like manner and according to accepted, good construction and
planting procedures. The owner of the property shall be responsible for the
continued proper maintenance of all landscaping materials and shall keep them
in a proper, neat and orderly appearance, free from refuse and debris and weeds
at all times. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within one
year or by the next planting period, whichever comes first. Other defective
landscape material shall be replaced or repaired within three months of notice
from the city.
         (b)   No required plantings shall be removed by the property owner or
agent of the owner unless the planting materials are found to be hazardous,
unhealthy or dead by the city or its agents. If any healthy, mature or
established plantings as required by the RSBOD regulations are removed at the
discretion of the owner or his or her agent they shall be replaced by the owner
with a similar sized planting to those that were removed to maintain a
consistent and mature appearance of plantings in that area.
         (c)   Hardwood mulch is permitted, but no stone, sand or rubber is
permitted.
      (4)   Preservation of existing landscape materials. Existing landscape
material to remain shall be shown on the required landscape plan. Any material
in satisfactory condition may be used to satisfy these requirements in whole or
in part when, in the opinion of the city’s approval authority, such materials
meet the requirements and achieve the objectives of the RSBOD regulations.
   (F)   Fencing and walls.
      (1)   Fences and walls can be used in conjunction with plant material to
provide visual breaks between properties, buffer various uses and enhance the
character of a development.
      (2)   These standards apply to all fences and walls installed to meet the
requirements of the RSBOD Regulations.
         (a)   Types.
            1.   Fencing shall not interfere with sight visibility for vehicles
and pedestrians.
            2.   Privacy fencing or walls (100% opacity from grade to six feet)
may be used as a screen between abutting commercial/industrial sites.
            3.   Decorative or privacy fencing may be used as a screen between
commercial/ industrial sites and abutting residential sites.
            4.   Fences running parallel to a right-of-way in commercial areas
shall be 40% or more transparent such as wrought iron or picket or post and
rail type fencing or less than 40 inches in height.
         (b)   Permitted materials.
            1.   Walls shall be constructed of brick, stone or segmented
modular block wall systems to match or coordinate with the building materials
on the primary building.
            2.   Fencing shall be made from natural materials. Wood fences
shall be natural or have a transparent color stain finish. The finished side of
the fence shall face the adjacent property or residential area. Post and rail
or other partially transparent fencing may be used in conjunction with
vegetative landscaping to create definition to the site. Poly vinyl chloride
(PVC) and plastic fencing material must be approved by the ARO.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.90; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 150.164 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the lighting standards is to coordinate and
unify the overall lighting appearance of nonresidential developments with
regard to aesthetic and technical aspects. Site lighting components should be
visually interesting and serve not only to illuminate the parking and drive
areas, but also to enhance the aesthetic appearance of the site. Fixtures shall
be of a design complimentary to the intent of the Downtown District (B-1)
standards. (See §§
150.090 through
150.111.)
   (B)   Applicability. All developments with ten or more parking spaces are
required to provide exterior lighting for all exterior doorways, pedestrian
pathways and vehicular use areas. All developments with less than ten parking
spaces shall provide exterior lighting at all exterior doorways. Photometries
shall be submitted for all exterior lighting.
   (C)   Illumination.
      (1)   A minimum illumination of 0.5 footcandles shall be maintained when
measured at grade in all vehicular use areas and pedestrian pathways. Actual
site measurement compliance shall not drop below this minimum.
      (2)   The footcandle intensity in vehicular use areas should be between
2.0 and 2.5 footcandles with an average-to-minimum light intensity ratio of not
more than six to one and a maximum-to- minimum light intensity ratio of not
more than 20 to one.
      (3)   An illumination of zero footcandles shall be maintained at the
property line of adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   Maximum height. Pole mounted lighting fixtures shall not exceed 20
feet above grade measured at the base of the pole/fixture (including any pole
base) to the top of the pole/fixture. Building mounted fixtures shall not be
more than 20 feet above average grade as measured vertically on the facade
directly below the fixture location.
   (E)   Fixture types.
      (1)   All mounted fixtures should be full cut-off style and the use of
wall packs should be minimized.
      (2)   Light fixtures and poles should be compatible with the architecture
and scale of the building. The lighting style of adjacent may be considered by
the city on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   Luminaries shall be either all high-pressure sodium or all metal
halide. The design shall be refractive or opaque.
      (4)   No colored or flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the
exterior of buildings.
      (5)   Lighted bollards may be used to illuminate pedestrian paths. Street
lights required in the right-of-way to extend streetscape improvements, as part
of new development or redevelopment, shall exactly match the post and
luminaries (materials and color) in the existing Miami Avenue streetscape.
(Refer to
Figure 23.)
      (6)   Neon lighting is prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4326.png]
 
   Figure 23: Acorn type pole mounted fixture preferred in the district
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.91; Ord. 21-09, passed 11-22-2021)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 150.175 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SEWERS, STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Generally. The contractor shall give two weeks’ advance notice of the
expected start of construction, but this requirement may be waived by
application in writing to the City Manager.
   (B)   Specifications.
      (1)   The construction specifications of the County Engineering
Department shall be and are adopted by reference, and shall apply on all
construction and materials of sewers.
      (2)   On all sidewalk and street construction, the construction and
materials shall comply with specifications and plats submitted by the developer
and approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall in all future developments require
the preliminary plat to specify the materials and type of construction of all
streets and sidewalks.
      (4)   Upon approval of the construction, plats and specifications for
sewers, streets and sidewalks, the contractor will then obtain from the City
Manager the necessary permits to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.92)
§ 150.176 CLUB POOLS.
   (A)   Parking area. No person shall hereafter construct, install or erect or
attempt to construct, install or erect on any parcel of real property within
the city any club pool, without providing on the same parcel or on contiguous
parcels under the same ownership as the pool, paved parking accommodations
having an aggregate area, exclusive of areas necessary for reasonable ingress
and egress, at least six times greater than the area of the surface of the
water contained in the pool when full.
   (B)   Fence. No person shall hereafter construct, install, erect, maintain,
use or permit the use of, or permit the continued existence of any club pool
within the city unless the pool is surrounded by a fence that is at least seven
feet in height above grade and consists of a chain link barrier with three
strands of barbed wire on top and that is located in reasonably close proximity
to the pool, unless the required parking accommodations are maintained, and
unless the water in the pool is periodically inspected in accordance with the
regulations of the County Board of Health.
   (C)   Hours of operation and conduct. No person shall hereafter use any club
pool within the city or carry on activity within the fence required this
section at any time from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. No person shall, within the
area of any club pool fence within the city, conduct himself or herself in an
unduly loud manner to the disturbance of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood. No adult person having the right to use any club pool within the
city shall permit any floodlights at the pool to be burning during the period
the club pool is not to be in use, except as may be required by any emergency.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.93)
§ 150.177 DISH-TYPE SATELLITE AND RECEIVING STATIONS.
   (A)   Dish-type satellite signal and receiving stations (hereafter
“stations”), subject to the following regulations, may be located within the
city.
   (B)   Stations shall not be linked to receivers which are not located on the
same premises as the station.
   (C)   (1)   Stations shall be located in the rear yard, as defined in this
zoning code, and behind the principal dwelling or structure located on the lot,
shall be located so that however turned or otherwise used, all parts of the
station will be set back at least six feet from the projected house side lines,
and shall be set back from the rear lot line no less than 15 feet.
      (2)   The height of the station, should the dish antenna be turned
perpendicular to the ground, shall not extend more than 15 feet above normal
ground level, and the maximum diameter of any dish antenna shall not exceed 12
feet.
   (D)   No installation or erection of a station shall commence before a
permit is obtained in accordance with this zoning code.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.94)
§ 150.178 CELLULAR OR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to:
      (1)   Accommodate the need for cellular or wireless communications towers
and facilities for the provision of personal wireless services while regulating
their location and number in the city;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of communications towers and
support structures through proper siting, design and screening;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from communications
towers and support structure failure; and
      (4)   Encourage the joint use of any new and existing communications
towers and support structures to reduce the number of such structures needed in
the future.
   (B)   Application procedure.
      (1)   (a)   Any person or company intending to apply for the placement or
operation of a cellular or wireless communications antenna, tower or site
within the city shall first schedule a pre-application conference with the City
Manager or his or her assignee. At this conference, the prospective applicant
must present in writing to the City Manager the number of towers needed by the
prospective applicant in the city and identify the area in which each tower is
intended to be located. The prospective applicant shall certify that this
information is based on its engineering studies, and that to the best of the
applicant’s knowledge, no additional towers or locations shall be needed within
the city. The applicant shall provide to the City Manager a map identifying all
sites within the city which would satisfy its needs and which would meet these
zoning requirements without a variance. This information should identify the
area within which each tower may be located, the minimum height of the proposed
towers and identify any possible users that may co-locate at any of the sites.
         (b)   The purpose of the pre-application conference will be to,
generally, evaluate the impact on adjacent areas and neighborhoods, discuss
possibilities of colocation, identify alternative suitable sites that may
minimize the negative impact on residential areas.
      (2)   Upon completion of the pre-application conference, an application
may be filed with the office of the City Manager. The application shall be in
compliance with the requirements of this section and in such form as approved
by the City Manager. If the application does not conform with the requirements
of this section, the applicant shall be notified by the City Manager and no
further consideration of the application shall occur until it is in compliance
with the terms of this section.
      (3)   The application fee for a cellular or wireless communication
system, tower, antenna or site shall be $500 for each proposed location and
$200 for each new user proposing to co-locate. In addition, each applicant
shall pay, prior to the issuance in obtaining independent expert consultation
that the city determines is necessary to review the application and advise the
city, and to conduct such post-construction test of signal emissions as is
determined appropriate by the consultant, not to exceed $1,500.
   (C)   Use regulations. The following use regulations shall apply to cellular
or wireless communication antennas and towers:
      (1)   A cellular or wireless communications site may only be permitted in
manufacturing zoning districts subject to the requirements set forth herein;
      (2)   Cellular or wireless communications sites in a manufacturing zoning
district shall not be located any closer to any residential zoning district
than as follows:
         (a)   Cellular or wireless communication towers less than 100 feet in
height shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any residential zoning
district; and
         (b)   For any cellular or wireless communication tower exceeding 100
feet in height, the tower may not be located closer to any residential zoning
district than a distance equal to 100 feet plus one foot for each foot of
height that the tower exceeds 100 feet.
      (3)   A cellular or wireless communications antenna may be mounted to an
existing structure, such as a communications tower (whether the tower is for
cellular or wireless purposes or not), smoke stack, water tower or other tall
structures in any manufacturing zoning district. Cellular or wireless
communication antennas may only be placed on the top of buildings that are no
less than 35 feet in height;
      (4)   Micro antennas not exceeding five feet in height may be placed on
any building in a business or manufacturing zoning district. A micro antenna
may be attached to any existing building located in an area described in the
preceding sentence, and shall not be subject to the setback requirements of
other cellular or wireless communication towers provided it is placed on the
roof of an existing building;
      (5)   All other uses accessory to the cellular or wireless communications
antenna and towers, including, but not limited to, business offices,
maintenance depots and materials and vehicle storage are prohibited from the
site unless otherwise permitted in the zoning district in which the cellular or
wireless communications antenna and/or tower is located; and
      (6)   Annually, each owner of a cellular or wireless communication tower
or antenna shall file with the city, not later than June 1 of each year, a
study or studies demonstrating that the operation of its antenna and all
antennas located on its tower are within current standards for effective
radiated power and standards for radiation exposure established by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC). The FCC standards shall be the standards in
effect on the first day of May immediately preceding the June 1 around deadline
for filing.
         (a)   Each study shall provide a minimum of ten measurements, each
taken on different dates, during peak operating conditions. All such
measurements shall be taken within 120 days of the due date for filing the
study. Such studies shall include documentation sufficient to demonstrate that
the tests were conducted at peak operating conditions. However, if the city is
advised by its engineering consultant that the determination that the antennas
are operating within the above standards can be achieved with fewer
measurements or less costly methods, the City Manager shall so advise the
antenna owners and accept the alternative studies. This includes consideration
by the engineering consultant as to whether the FCC reporting requirements may
provide the necessary information to evaluate, with reasonable certainty,
actual radiated power of the antennas.
         (b)   Such studies shall be accompanied by a single filing fee of
$200. Two or more providers located on the same tower may submit joint studies
along with a single application fee.
         (c)   If all antennas on a tower have been in operation less than six
calendar months as of June 1, then the due date for such filing shall be the
next annual filing date. If any antenna on a tower has been in operation six
months or more as of June 1, then the owner of the tower and the owner of all
antennas in operation six months or more shall file the required studies.
   (D)   Standards of approval for cellular or wireless communications antennas
and towers. The following standards shall apply to all cellular or wireless
communications antennas and towers.
      (1)   The cellular or wireless communications company shall demonstrate,
using the latest technological evidence, that the antenna or tower must be
placed in a proposed location in order to serve its necessary function in the
company’s grid system. Part of this demonstration shall include a drawing
showing the boundaries of the area around the proposed location which would
probably also permit the antennas to function properly in the company’s grid
system. This area shall be considered the allowable zone.
         (a)   The applicant shall provide to the city all engineering studies
which the applicant has completed or intends to complete to establish the
necessity of placing an antenna within the city in general and within allowable
zone, in particular.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide a map of all current locations of
wireless communication antenna sites and all future proposed wireless
communication antenna sites which will provide service under a license issued
by the FCC to users in the city. This map shall include:
            1.   The location of all existing wireless communication antennas
and towers that provide service to users located in the city;
            2.   The identification of each parcel of real estate within the
manufacturing district that is also within the allowable zone of the applicant
and is of sufficient size to comply with the setbacks and other requirements of
this zoning regulation;
            3.   The geographic areas which are served by each tower location
that provides service to users within the city; and
            4.   The geographic areas into which the provider must install an
antenna or tower in order to provide service to users within the city.
      (2)   (a)   If the communications company proposes to build a cellular or
wireless communications tower (as opposed to mounting the antenna on an
existing structure), it is required to demonstrate that it has contacted the
owners of nearby tall structures within the allowable zone, asked for
permission to install the cellular communications antenna on those structures
and was denied for either non-economic reasons or that a clearly unreasonable
economic demand was made by the owner, based on prevailing market values. Tall
structures shall include, but not be limited to, smoke stacks, water towers and
buildings over 35 feet in height, antenna support structures of other cellular
or wireless communication companies or other communication towers.
         (b)   The city many deny the application to construct a new cellular
or wireless communications tower if the applicant has not made a good faith
effort to mount the antenna on existing structures.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide the city with its plan of operation of
the antenna structure, including a description of the nature of the expected
and intended usages including:
         (a)   The radio wave frequency range of the expected or intended
usage;
         (b)   The effective radiated power under peak operation conditions of
each antenna on the proposed tower; and
         (c)   The types of services that the applicant expects or intends to
provide to customers of the applicant through the signals received and
transmitted by the antenna.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide engineering calculations demonstrating
anticipated levels of effective radiated power and shall provide a study which
demonstrates the mapping of actual radiation levels actually produced by all
antennas on a tower under maximum operating conditions at ground level within
800 feet of the tower. The readings shall be taken at 45-degree intervals
around the tower of every 100 feet from the tower (plus or minus ten feet).
Upon written request of any applicant, the City Manager, in his or her
discretion, can waive the requirement for measurements at particular intervals
or distances from the tower or he or she may require any person will be exposed
at the locations specified in this provision or that the applicant has no
authority to enter upon the land needed for the measurements, or that the
city’s engineering consultant has advised that specific locations or other
tests are not necessary to determine to the consultant’s satisfaction the
effective radiated power of the facility. The City Manager’s decision shall be
stated in writing with written justification for the decision.
   (E)   Standards of approval of all cellular or wireless communications
antennas and towers. For cellular or wireless communications antenna to be
placed on an existing structure, with no new tower to be erected, the applicant
needs to submit to the City Manager only such information as required to ensure
compliance with the applicable provisions of this section. Such requirements
for an application which is only for an antenna are identified by an asterisk
(*) in this division (E). All other regulations set forth in this section shall
be applicable unless clearly limited to towers only.
      (1)   Antenna/tower height.* The applicant shall demonstrate that the
antenna/tower is no higher than necessary to function satisfactorily and to
accommodate the colocation requirements as set out in division (E)(6) of this
section. An antenna that is taller than the minimum necessary height may be
approved if it would significantly increase the potential for co-location.
Cellular or wireless communication towers shall be exempt from the maximum
height requirements contained in §
150.013. Cellular towers shall be monopole construction unless it is
demonstrated that another type of tower is required for safety purposes, or
that the aesthetics of the tower would be significantly improved.
      (2)   Setbacks from the base of the tower. If a new cellular or wireless
communications tower is to be constructed in a manufacturing zoning district,
the minimum distance between the base of the tower or any guy wire anchors and
any property line which abuts a zoning district other than a residential
district shall be no closer than the greater of the following:
         (a)   Forty percent of the tower height; and
         (b)   Fifty feet.
      (3)   Cellular or wireless communications tower safety.*
         (a)   All cellular or wireless communications towers shall be fitted
with anti- climbing devices as approved by the manufacturers. Furthermore, the
applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed cellular or wireless
communications tower and its antenna are safe and that the surrounding
properties will not be negatively affected by tower failure, falling ice or
other debris, electromagnetic fields or radio frequency interference. However,
if a specific safety issue in question is determined to be regulated by either
FCC regulations or applicable Building Code regulations, and the operation or
construction is in compliance with such regulations, then this requirement for
safety shall be deemed to have been met.
         (b)   Subsequent to the installation of a cellular or wireless
communications tower site, if it is determined by the City Council, upon
presentation of proper and sufficient documentation, and after a public
hearing, that the operation of a cellular or wireless communications tower is
inherently dangerous or is a demonstrable health hazard, the cellular or
wireless tower shall be declared to be a nuisance and all operation shall
cease. The tower or antenna shall also be removed as provided under division
(G) of this section. However, no order of removal shall be made if it is
inconsistent with existing FCC regulations.
      (4)   Fencing.* A fence shall be required around the cellular or wireless
communications tower and its support or accessory structures, unless the
antenna is mounted on an existing structure. The fence shall be a minimum of
eight feet in height and shall be erected in a manner to prevent access to non-
authorized personnel.
      (5)   Landscaping.* Landscaping, in compliance with a plan approved by
the ARO, shall be approved to screen as much of the support structure and
ground level features as is possible but shall not unreasonably reduce
visibility needed for security purposes. In addition, existing vegetation on
and around the site shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      (6)   Limiting the number of cellular or wireless communications towers.
         (a)   In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures
needed in the city in the future, the owner of an existing cellular or wireless
communications tower shall not unreasonably deny a request to accommodate other
uses, including other cellular or wireless communications companies, and the
antenna of local police, fire and ambulance departments. The owner of the
existing cellular or wireless communications tower may request reasonable
compensation for the use of the tower.
         (b)   For the purposes of encouraging co-location of cellular or
wireless antenna and other uses, cellular or wireless communication towers
shall be designed, engineered and constructed as follows, unless waived for
good cause to minimize impact on adjoining property by the City Manager:
            1.   Towers less than 75 feet tall shall be designed, engineered
and constructed to support antennas installed by one or more cellular or
wireless communication service users;
            2.   Towers more than 75 feet in height but less than 150 feet
shall be designed, engineered and constructed to support antennas installed by
two or more wireless communication service users; and
            3.   Towers 150 feet in height or taller shall be designed,
engineered and constructed to support antennas installed by three or more
wireless communication service users.
         (c)   As used in divisions (E)(6)(b)1. through (E)(6)(b)3. of this
section, the term USERS shall include the antennas of Police, Fire and
Ambulance Departments. In addition, an applicant must demonstrate that the area
acquired by lease or otherwise acquired for the use and construction of the
cellular tower and accessory structures is sufficient in size to accommodate
any additional structures that may be required if additional users are added to
the tower.
      (7)   Licensing.* The communications company must demonstrate to the city
that it is licensed by the FCC. The owner of the tower must also annually
provide to the city on January 1 of each year, a list of all users of the tower
and each user shall provide the city with a copy of each user’s license with
the FCC. No approval will be granted to any applicant unless proof of current
FCC license for the proposed use of the tower is provided.
      (8)   Required parking.* If the cellular or wireless communications site
is fully automated, adequate parking shall be required for maintenance workers.
If the site is not fully automated, adequate parking shall be required for the
number of employees working on the largest shift. All parking specifications
and requirements as established in the zoning code.
      (9)   Appearance.* Cellular or wireless communications towers under 200
feet in height shall have a galvanized finish. Cellular or wireless
communications towers shall meet all Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
regulations. No cellular or wireless communications towers may be artificially
lighted except when required by the FAA. Except for safety or warning signs
approved by the ARO and City Manager, no cellular or wireless communication
tower or antenna and accessory buildings and structures, including fences,
shall contain any signage. All utility lines serving the towers shall be
underground.
      (10)   Site plan required. A full site plan shall be required for all
proposed cellular or wireless communications sites, except antenna to be placed
on existing structures, at a reasonable scale, but not smaller than one inch to
100 feet, indicating, as a minimum, the following:
         (a)   The total area of the site;
         (b)   The existing zoning of the property in question and of all
adjacent properties;
         (c)   All public and private right-of-way and easement lines located
on or adjacent to the property which is proposed to be continued, created,
relocated or abandoned;
         (d)   Existing topography with a maximum of five-foot contours
intervals;
         (e)   The proposed finished grade of the development shown by contours
not exceeding five- foot intervals;
         (f)   The location of all existing buildings and structures and the
proposed location of the cellular or wireless communications tower and all
cellular or wireless communications support structures including dimensions,
heights and where applicable, the gross floor area of the buildings;*
         (g)   The locations and dimensions of all curb cuts, driving lanes,
off-street parking and loading areas including the number of spaces, grades,
surfacing materials, drainage plans and illumination of the facility;*
         (h)   All existing and proposed sidewalks and open areas on the site;*
         (i)   The location of all proposed fences, screening and walls;*
         (j)   The location of all existing and proposed streets;
         (k)   All existing and proposed utilities including types and grades;*
         (l)   The schedule of any phasing of the project;
         (m)   Documentation which shows all building and structures on
adjacent lots and any additional lot which has a lot line within 500 feet of
the lot on which the cellular tower is proposed to be located. The approximate
elevation of the highest point of each building or structure shall be noted.
The applicant may identify any additional features in the area (such as
existing screening, fences and topography) which might be helpful in
considering the impact of the proposed tower on nearby property;
         (n)   The names and addresses of all property owners within 500 feet
of the parcel of property on which the tower is to be placed; and
         (o)   Any other information as may be required to determine the
conformance with this zoning code.*
   (F)   Maintenance. Any owner of property used as a cellular or wireless
communications site and any owner of a cellular or wireless communications
antenna or tower shall maintain such property and all structures in good
condition and free from trash, outdoor storage, weeds and other debris. Any
owner of a cellular or wireless communications tower shall be required to
notify the City Manager of its intent in writing within 30 days of its
cessation of business, its discontinuance of service or transfer of ownership.
   (G)   Removal.
      (1)   Any cellular or wireless communications tower or antenna that has
discontinued its service for a period of six continuous months or more is
hereby determined to be a nuisance. A tower declared to be a nuisance must be
removed by the owner of the tower or antenna and by the owner of the property
on which the tower or antenna is located, along with all accessory structures
related thereto. DISCONTINUED shall mean that the structure has not been
properly maintained, has been abandoned, become obsolete, is unused, is no
longer used for its original purpose or is no longer transmitting the same type
of radio wave signals that is was originally designed to transmit, or has
ceased the daily activities or operations which had occurred.
      (2)   Whenever, upon inspection it shall appear that a cellular or
wireless communications tower has been abandoned or its use discontinued, the
City Manager or a designated representative shall notify, either by personal
delivery or by certified mail, the owner of the property on which the tower is
located that the tower must be taken down and removed. The City Manager or a
designated representative, in addition to any other citations, notices,
penalties or remedies provided by law or ordinance, is authorized to proceed in
a manner consistent with and pursuant to R.C. §§ 715.26 and 715.261 to maintain
the public health, safety and welfare and to recover costs as appropriate.
   (H)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No cellular or wireless communications tower shall be permitted on
any lot on which any nonconforming building or structure is located nor on
which any nonconforming use or activity is occurring without first obtaining a
variance from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   No cellular or wireless communications tower shall be constructed,
replaced or altered without first obtaining the applicable building permit.
      (3)   A cellular or wireless communications antenna or communication site
shall not be placed, operated, constructed, affixed or otherwise located within
the city except as allowed and permitted by this chapter.
   (I)   Public hearing.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for the construction or placement of any
telecommunications tower or antenna without the City Manager conducting a
public hearing which shall be published as a legal advertisement. Notice shall
be sent to all property owners within 500 feet of the parcel on which a tower
or antenna is intended to be located. Such notice shall be sent by regular mail
not less than ten days prior to public hearing.
      (2)   The City Manager shall conduct the public hearing and may continue
it if he or she determines that it is in the best interest of obtaining
additional relevant information.
   (J)   Appeals. Any decision of the City Manager to issue or deny issuance of
a permit may be appealed by an interested party in writing to the Board of
Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the decision. Any property owner or occupant
of real estate, within 500 feet of the subject parcel shall be presumed to be
an interested party. The date of the decision shall be the date the decision is
mailed to the applicant and to all property owners within 500 feet of the
subject parcel. Such mailing shall be by regular mail. Any decision to deny the
application shall be set forth in writing and be supported by substantial
evidence.
      (1)   Timing of appeal. The interested party appealing the decision must
provide notice of his or her intent to appeal such decision to the City Manager
and the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the City’s Manager’s
provision of written notification of its decision to the applicant and all
interested parties.
      (2)   Hearing on appeal. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public
hearing, evaluating the appeal based upon the standards of review applied by
the City Manager to permit application, within 60 days of receiving the
interested party’s notice of appeal.
   (K)   Severability. If any requirement for reporting or measuring radiated
power from an antenna is determined to be illegal or invalid for any reason,
then the standards for the reporting or measuring of radiated power which has
been approved, authorized or directed by the FCC and is the most similar to the
original requirement shall be used instead.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, § 150.95)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the remedies provided in §
150.004, whoever fails to conform to any of the provisions of this zoning code,
or fails to obey any lawful order of the City Manager issued pursuant to such
provisions, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not to exceed
$150 for each offense, and each day’s continuance of the violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person or entity which undertakes to do a specific piece of work
or service in construction, alteration, or addition using their own means or
methods, without submitting themselves to the control of another in respect to
all details of the work or service; who fails to conform to any provision of
this zoning code; or who fails to obey any lawful order of the City Manager
issued pursuant to such provisions, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined not more than $150 for each offense. Each day’s continuation of the
violation shall be considered a separate offense. If the violator is a person
or entity regularly engaged in construction, alteration or addition, then they
shall be fined not more than $150 for each offense and each day’s continuation
of the violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
150.054 shall be fined not more than $150 per occurrence for each day said
violation continues.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 6-14-2021, §§ 150.21, 150.31)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Definitions
Administrative Procedures
   
151.015   Applicability of procedures
   
151.016   Preliminary information
   
151.017   Preliminary conference
   
151.018   Submission and processing of preliminary plat
   
151.019   Submission and approval of subdivision improvement plans
   
151.020   Issuance of permits
   
151.021   Submission, processing and approval of subdivision plat
   
151.022   Establishing a minor subdivision
Form and Content of Plats
   
151.035   Preliminary plat
   
151.036   Subdivision plat
Rules for Layout of Subdivisions
   
151.050   Interpretation by Planning Commission
   
151.051   Conformity to major street plan
   
151.052   Street extensions
   
151.053   Dedicated rights-of-way
   
151.054   Intersections
   
151.055   Horizontal and vertical curves
   
151.056   Street grades and elevations
   
151.057   Dead-end streets
   
151.058   Private streets and reserve strips
   
151.059   Street names
   
151.060   Provision of alleys
   
151.061   Flood hazard areas
   
151.062   Blocks
   
151.063   Lot regulations
   
151.064   Pedestrian ways
   
151.065   Easements
   
151.066   Public sites
Public Improvement Regulations
   
151.080   General requirements; bond
   
151.081   Improvements to be made in official streets only
   
151.082   Street specifications
   
151.083   Alley specifications
   
151.084   Storm drainage
   
151.085   Sidewalks
   
151.086   Street name signs
   
151.087   Sanitary facilities
   
151.088   Water distribution system
   
151.089   Fire hydrants
   
151.090   Utility connections
   
151.091   Grading, excavations and filling
   
151.092   Street trees
Construction of Public Improvements
   
151.105   Preconstruction meeting and work schedule
   
151.106   Inspections
   
151.107   Duties of the subdivider or contractor
   
151.108   Grade stakes
   
151.109   Repair of damage; final cleanup
   
151.110   Maintenance of improvements
   
151.111   Construction agreements; maintenance guarantees
Variances
   
151.125   Variances to be based on hardship
   
151.126   Conditions upon grant of variance
   
151.127   Public hearing; notice of decision
Charges and Fees
   
151.140   Preliminary plat fees
   
151.141   Final plan checking and field inspection fees
   
151.142   Payment of fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way used primarily for vehicular access to the rear
or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION. A contract secured by a bond in an amount and with
surety satisfactory to the City Manager, guaranteeing completion of public
improvements which are shown on the subdivision improvement plan as the
responsibility of the subdivider.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line indicating the minimum horizontal distance
between the street line and buildings or any projection thereof, other than
steps and porches.
   CROSSWALKWAY. A right-of-way used primarily for pedestrian travel through or
across any portion of a block.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short, minor street, having but one end open for motor
traffic, the other being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use, for a specific purpose or
purposes, of a designated strip of land to the general public, a corporation or
other individuals.
   EXPRESSWAY. A motorway of considerable continuity designed for fast,
uninterrupted flow of vehicular traffic; having a right-of-way of varying
width; no direct access from abutting property to express traffic lanes; and no
street crossing or intersection at grade.
   EXPRESSWAY, MODIFIED. An expressway whose potential traffic volume does not
justify all of the expressway features.
   LOT. A unit area of land within a subdivision intended for transfer of
ownership or for building development.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot with opposite ends abutting on streets.
   LOT, PANHANDLE. A lot which utilizes a narrow strip of land not a building
site having an average width of less than 50 feet and an average length of more
than 60 feet to provide access to, or legal frontage on, a public street.
   MOTORWAY. A principal arterial route designated as an expressway, modified
expressway or thoroughfare.
   PLAT OF SUBDIVISION. A map showing the division of any tract of land into
two or more parcels, and prepared for the purpose of recording. (See §
151.036 for the items of information which the plat normally includes.)
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A restriction on the use of private property within a
subdivision for the purpose of providing mutual protection against undesirable
aspects of development.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Any of the following: roadway pavement, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary and storm sewers and other
appurtenant construction so related to the subdivision improvement plan.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land lying between the property lines of a
street or other motorway, alley, crosswalkway or easement.
   STREET. A right-of-way designated for vehicular and pedestrian traffic,
regardless of its designation by name, such as street, avenue, land, place or
the like.
   STREET, IMPORTANT NEIGHBORHOOD. A street designated to serve as an important
traffic-way for a neighborhood, or as a feeder to a thoroughfare. The
determination of such street classification in any specific instance shall rest
with the City Planning Commission.
   STREET, MINOR. Any street other than an expressway, modified expressway,
thoroughfare or important neighborhood street.
   SUBDIVISION. As defined in R.C. § 711.001:
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels, sites or lots,
any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer of ownership; provided, however, that the division or
partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not involving any new
streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange does not create
additional building sites, shall be exempted; or
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any
street or streets, except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public utilities.
(R.C. § 711.001(B))
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLAN. A drawing showing a proposed subdivision of
land together with the public improvements which are to be installed therein.
Such drawing is not recordable. (See §§
151.080 through
151.092 and
151.105 through
151.111 for the items of information which the plan normally includes.)
   THOROUGHFARE. A street of considerable continuity designed as a major
traffic-way. This category does not include an expressway or modified
expressway.
   ZONING. Regulation by districts of the height, area, and use of buildings,
use of land, and density of population.
(Prior Code, § 151.001) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 151.015 APPLICABILITY OF PROCEDURES.
   Any person desiring to subdivide any lot, tract or parcel of land or to
change or rearrange any such lot, tract or parcel shall comply with the
procedures established herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.015) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.016 PRELIMINARY INFORMATION.
   The subdivider shall notify the City Manager in writing of his or her
intention to subdivide a property. Such notification shall include mention or
illustration of any aspect or feature which will affect the design or layout of
the subdivision. For clarity, preliminary information may utilize a map to
illustrate various features or aspects of the property.
(Prior Code, § 151.016) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.017 PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Within one week after submission of the preliminary information, or
another mutually agreeable time, the City Manager (or designee) and the
subdivider shall meet to review the elements of the proposed subdivision. To
this conference the subdivider should bring the following data:
      (1)   Intended land use. Designation of land proposed for residential,
industrial, commercial or other type land use;
      (2)   Location map with reference to the community. A map which shall
show the overall relationship of the proposed subdivision to main traffic
arteries, existing minor streets, existing water mains and sanitary and storm
sewer facilities with an indication of the size of each, of all shopping
centers, schools, parks, playgrounds, railroads, airports, hospitals, churches
or other community facilities or features which will either serve or influence
the proposed subdivision; and
      (3)   Site analysis sheet. A topographic survey or topographic map of the
property to be subdivided at a scale which will give all pertinent information
without becoming a size which is cumbersome. Such survey or map shall contain
thereon the proposed subdivision name, a scale, north arrow, date, the
perimeter, boundary of the proposed subdivision, all existing public utilities,
natural features such as rock outcrops, tree masses and watercourses which are
either on, adjacent to or near the property to be subdivided.
   (B)   At this meeting, the following topics will be discussed:
      (1)   The City Manager will make certain that the subdivider is
acquainted with the procedures set up by this chapter; and
      (2)   The elements of design for the proposed subdivision:
         (a)   Setback requirements;
         (b)   Alignments and width of streets;
         (c)   Rights-of-way required;
         (d)   Needs of major street plan;
         (e)   Minimum lot requirements;
         (f)   Minimum frontage requirements;
         (g)   Hazards which require special attention;
         (h)   Streets which must be extended;
         (i)   Street access to adjacent undeveloped property;
         (j)   Handling of waterways on the site; and
         (k)   Other appropriate topics.
(Prior Code, § 151.017) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.018 SUBMISSION AND PROCESSING OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Submission of preliminary plat. After the conference described in §
151.017, the subdivider shall file eight copies of the preliminary plat,
prepared in accordance with §
151.035, with the City Manager at least two weeks prior to the meeting of the
Planning Commission at which action is desired. A letter to the Commission
requesting the plat be processed and containing any other pertinent information
or requests the subdivider wishes to convey shall accompany the submission of
the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Processing of the preliminary plat.
      (1)   The preliminary plat and the letter of submission shall be checked
by the City Manager as to its conformance and the requirements of the
preliminary plat as stated in §
151.035. If the preliminary plat does not meet the requirements of §
151.035, the elements of design discussed at the preliminary conference, the
requirements of the major street plan, the requirements of the zoning code or
any other part of these regulations, the City Manager shall return the
preliminary plat to the subdivider with a letter of rejection stating the
reasons for its rejection. However, at his or her discretion, the City Manager
may forward the preliminary plat not meeting all requirements to the Commission
with a statement of the irregularities for its conditional approval or
rejection. If the plat is found satisfactory, the City Manager will submit it
to the Commission with a written recommendation for the Commission’s review and
decision.
      (2)   The Commission may approve the plat, approve it with conditions or
disapprove it. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission, the
Commission’s Secretary will indicate upon each copy that it has been approved.
One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy shall be returned to the
City Manager and two copies shall be retained by the Commission. If
disapproved, the Commission’s Secretary shall return, to the subdivider, one
copy of the preliminary plat marked “Disapproved by the Madeira Planning
Commission”, along with a letter stating the reason or reasons for its
disapproval. One copy shall be given to the City Manager and two copies filed
by the Commission’s Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 151.018) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.019 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Submission of the subdivision improvement plan. On receipt of the
approved preliminary plat, the subdivider may instruct a registered
professional engineer to prepare plans for streets and sidewalks, sanitary
facilities and stormwater drainage, in accordance with the specifications
established or referred to herein. The subdivider, or his or her engineer,
shall submit to the City Manager three copies of the improvement plans prepared
according to accepted practices, which should not exceed 30 by 42 inches and be
drawn at a scale of 50 feet or less to the inch horizontally and ten feet or
less to the inch vertically. The plans should be accompanied by stormwater run-
off sheets and calculations, and if necessary, percolation tests, all certified
by a registered professional engineer.
   (B)   Checking and approval of the subdivision improvement plans. The
improvement plans shall be checked by the City Manager to ensure that they meet
the specifications established in §§
151.050 through
151.066,
151.080 through
151.092 and
151.105 through
151.111 for streets, sanitary facilities and all associated appurtenances. If
found satisfactory, the City Manager shall approve the plans and transmit one
copy to the subdivider. If unsatisfactory, the City Manager shall approve with
modification, or disapprove the plans and shall notify the subdivider thereof,
including a statement of modifications or reasons for disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 151.019) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.020 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Upon approval of the improvement plans, the subdivider may then obtain from
the City Manager the necessary permits to proceed with the complete or partial
development of the subdivision, as set forth in §§
151.080 through
151.092 and
151.105 through
151.111 of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.020) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.021 SUBMISSION, PROCESSING AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Submission of subdivision plat. After the completion of all
improvements to the satisfaction of the City Manager, or after successful
completion of the posting of an accepted performance bond, the final plat will
be accepted and processed by the City Manager. The subdivider and three clear
and legible copies of the subdivision plat, as described in §
151.036 of these regulations. The subdivision plat shall be accompanied by a
certificate of title showing the ownership of all lands to be dedicated for
public use and that the title thereof is free and unencumbered.
   (B)   Processing the subdivision plat. The City Manager will check the
subdivision plat as to description, certification, computations, lot areas and
numbers, monuments, conformity with the approved preliminary plat and other
pertinent aspects. If found satisfactory, the City Manager will transmit to the
Commission the subdivision plat, and two copies, along with the attorney’s
report of title and a certification that:
      (1)   The technical details of the subdivision plat itself have been
checked and found to be satisfactory; and
      (2)   Either all improvements have been completed in a satisfactory
manner, or that a satisfactory performance bond agreement has been furnished.
   (C)   Approval of subdivision plat.
      (1)   After the subdivision plat, together with such certificates, have
been received by the Commission, and provided that the subdivision plat is
found to conform to the preliminary plat as approved, the Commission will
approve the subdivision plat and the Chairperson shall so certify on the
original copy. The Commission shall take action on the subdivision plat within
60 days after its submission to the City Manager. The original copy of the
approved subdivision plat, with signatures of approval, shall be returned to
the subdivider for recording with the County Clerk.
      (2)   If the approved subdivision plat is not recorded within six months
after the approval date, such approval shall be null and void. The Commission’s
Secretary shall transmit two copies of the subdivision plat, with the
certificate of title, to the City Council, for necessary action on the proposed
dedications. One copy shall be retained for the files of the Commission. In the
event the subdivision plat is disapproved, the original drawing and two copies
shall be returned to the subdivider accompanied by a letter from the
Commission’s Secretary stating the action taken and the reasons for disapproval
of the subdivision plat.
(Prior Code, § 151.021) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.022 ESTABLISHING A MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A proposed division of a parcel of land along an existing public
street, not involving the opening, widening or extension of any street or road,
and involving no more than five lots after the original tract has been
completely subdivided, may be submitted to a representative designated by the
Planning Commission for the purpose of reviewing such proposed division, and if
found not contrary to applicable platting, subdividing or zoning regulations,
he or she shall within seven working days after submission of such proposed
division approve the same, and, on presentation of a conveyance of said parcel,
stamp the same “Approved by the Madeira Planning Commission, No Plat Required”.
Such representative may require the submission of a sketch and such other
information as is pertinent to his or her determination hereunder.
   (B)   Plats of subdivision will not be required for subdivisions as defined
in R.C. § 711.001 for subdivisions not involving the opening or extension of
any street or easement of access and in which past subdivision and development
has so far proceeded that the preparation and recording of a plat would serve
no public or planning purpose. The representative is authorized to approve
conveyances without a plat in such cases as are expected herein. In case of
doubt, such representative may refer the question to the Planning Commission.
If such representative refuses approval for a subdivision without a plat, the
applicant may appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 151.022) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
Statutory reference:
   Approval by planning authority without plat, see R.C. § 711.131
FORM AND CONTENT OF PLATS
§ 151.035 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Form of preliminary plat. The subdivider shall file with the City
Manager eight copies of the preliminary plat for review. The minimum dimensions
of this plat shall be 18 inches by 26 inches. No plat shall be greater than 30
inches in width nor 42 inches in length. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of
100 feet or less to the inch. The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a
letter of submission which requests that the plat be processed and which points
out any feature or subject concerning the subdivision which the subdivider
considers pertinent.
   (B)   Content of preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall clearly show:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate, phonetically or in spelling, the name of any other
subdivision in the county;
      (2)   Locations by section, township, range, county, state;
      (3)   Names and addresses of owner or developer, of the technician who
made the plan, and of engineer responsible for engineering details;
      (4)   Sufficient information to accurately locate the plat (Note:
references to existing thoroughfares, plats and the like may be used if they do
not exist within reasonable distances of the proposed subdivision; a vicinity
plat on a small scale shall accompany the preliminary plat);
      (5)   The boundary lines of the tract accurately indicated by a heavy,
solid line and the acreage comprised therein;
      (6)   The lines and names of all existing or platted streets and other
public ways adjacent to or in connection with the tract and other important
features within 200 feet of the boundary lines, such as railroad lines,
watercourses, exceptional topography and the like;
      (7)   The lot lines and subdivision names of adjacent subdivisions and
the property lines and owners of record of all adjacent parcels that are
unsubdivided;
      (8)   Location and dimension of all existing easements and rights-of-way
within the tract or adjacent thereto;
      (9)   All existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract or adjacent thereto;
      (10)   Sources of water supply;
      (11)   Provision for sewerage and sewage disposal;
      (12)   Approximate contour lines having the following interval:
         (a)   Five-foot contour interval for ground slopes between 5% and 15%;
and
         (b)   Ten-foot contour interval for ground slopes exceeding 15%.
      (13)   The layout and names of proposed streets, alleys, easements and
lots, and dimensions signifying widths of streets, alleys, easements, and lots
and depth of lots (Note: proposed street names shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate, phonetically or in spelling, existing street names in the
county);
      (14)   Lot and block numbers proposed;
      (15)   Statement of the lot area of the smallest lot in the subdivision;
      (16)   Building setback lines shown graphically with dimensions along all
streets;
      (17)   A statement declaring that all requirements for front, rear and
side yards will be met;
      (18)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use, or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all property
owners in the subdivision, or parcels of land or lots to be used for any
purpose other than private residential shall be so designated;
      (19)   Approximate location of areas subject to inundation or stormwater
overflow, and all areas covered by water and all watercourses which are to be
preserved and used in the development of the subdivision;
      (20)   An outline of the proposed deed restrictions;
      (21)   The approximate profile of each street with tentative grades
indicated;
      (22)   The cross-section of proposed streets showing width of roadways
and location of sidewalks;
      (23)   Zoning district boundary line as established under the zoning code
(Chapter 150); and
      (24)   North point, scale and date.
(Prior Code, § 151.035) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.036 SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Form of subdivision plat. Each subdivision plat shall be submitted in
the form of an original drawing, in waterproof ink, together with three clear
and legible copies.
   (B)   Specifications for and contents of subdivision plat. Subdivision plats
shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, with at least a two-inch
margin on the left side, and not larger than 30 inches in width and 42 inches
in length, and shall clearly show:
      (1)   Boundary lines, with accurate lengths, angles and bearings. These
boundaries shall be determined by an accurate survey in the field, which shall
be balanced and closed;
      (2)   The exact location and width of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting or adjoining the boundaries of the subdivision tract;
      (3)   The exact location and width of all adjoining lots or property
lines;
      (4)   All dimensions shall be accurate to hundredths of a foot, and
angles and bearings accurate to the exact number of minutes for the following:
         (a)   Streets and alley lanes, their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and widths;
         (b)   The lengths of all arcs, radii, points of curvature, tangent
bearings;
         (c)   All easements and rights-of-way for public services (the
limitations of easements rights shall be stated on the plat); and
         (d)   All lot lines, with dimensions, bearings and angles (if other
than right angles to street and alley lines).
      (5)   Building setback, lines and distances from rights-of-way;
      (6)   All lots, consecutively numbered or lettered with no omissions or
duplications;
      (7)   Accurate description of location, material, and size of all
monuments (R.C. § 711.03 requires at least four permanent monuments for each
subdivision of ten lots or less);
      (8)   The accurate outline of all land that is offered for dedication for
public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and of all property proposed to
be reserved by private covenant for the common use of the property owners in
the subdivision;
      (9)   Private restrictions, if any, and boundaries for each type of
restriction;
      (10)   Protective covenants. If recorded separately, reference to book
and page of recording shall be made on the subdivision plat;
      (11)   The sidelines of all easements shall be shown by fine dash lines;
      (12)   Name of the subdivision;
      (13)   The names and addresses of the subdivider and of the engineer or
surveyor;
      (14)   A certification by a state-registered engineer or surveyor to the
effect that the plat accurately represents a survey made by him or her, that
all monuments shown thereon actually exist or will be installed, and that their
position is correctly shown;
      (15)   A certification that the applicant is the owner and a statement by
such owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way, and any other sites for public
use, and creating any easements and specifying the purpose of such easements;
and
      (16)   North point, scale and date.
   (C)   Plats required; exemptions. No subdivision defined in R.C. § 711.001,
shall be made of land within the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission
without the preparation and recording of a plat of subdivision in accordance
with this chapter, except as exempted from such platting by this chapter or by
R.C. § 711.131.
(Prior Code, § 151.036) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
RULES FOR LAYOUT OF SUBDIVISIONS
§ 151.050 INTERPRETATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   All contested interpretations of these rules and regulations shall be
decided by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 151.050) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.051 CONFORMITY TO MAJOR STREET PLAN.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets
shall conform to such major street plan, adopted by the Planning Commission, as
may be in force at the time such streets are planned and constructed, and shall
be considered in its relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical
conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in its appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets and the
prospective development and access to adjacent land. Where not shown on the
major street plan, the arrangement and other design standards of streets shall
conform to the provisions found herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.051) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.052 STREET EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Existing streets. The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall
make provisions for the proper continuation of existing streets in adjoining
areas.
   (B)   Adjacent property. Where areas adjoining a proposed subdivision are
not subdivided and are appropriate for a subdivision, arrangements of streets
in new subdivisions shall make provisions of the practical development of the
adjacent property, permit a feasible extension of streets, and be in general
conformity with a plan for the most advantageous development of the entire
neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 151.052) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.053 DEDICATED RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Minimum right-of-way widths.
      (1)   Expressways, modified expressways and thoroughfares: 100 feet;
      (2)   Important neighborhood streets and state roads: 60 feet;
      (3)   Minor streets: 60 feet for pavements 44 and 36 feet in width, 50
feet for pavements less than 36 feet in width. Cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a
circular area with a minimum diameter of 80 feet. T-turnarounds are permitted
on residential streets if the abutting lots have depth of no more than 110 feet
from the normal street right-of-way line. T-turnarounds are recommended for
industrial subdivisions. They shall measure 100 feet by 60 feet;
      (4)   Alleys: 20 feet; and
      (5)   Crosswalkways: a minimum of four feet on each side of the
designated centerline, or such width as may be required for necessary
maintenance of utility involved.
   (B)   Existing streets. Subdivisions platted along existing streets shall
dedicate additional rights-of-way if necessary to meet the minimum street width
requirements set forth in the foregoing section. Such dedication shall be in
accordance with the following:
      (1)   At least the minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where
the subdivision is on both sides of the existing street; and
      (2)   When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing
street; one-half of the required right-of-way width, measured from the
centerline of the existing roadway, shall be dedicated. However, in no case
shall the owner or owners of such property be forced to dedicate from their
land more than one-half the total right-of-way width. Dedication of less than
minimum width of rights-of-way for streets proposed along the boundaries of
land to be subdivided shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.053) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.054 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Right-of-way. Streets and alleys at their intersections shall be
provided with at least 20-foot radius turns at property lines in all
subdivisions other than industrial subdivisions, in which case the radii shall
be such as to provide 40-foot radii at curb lines. These minimum radii shall be
increased when the angle of intersection is less than 75 degrees. In business
districts a cutoff may be substituted for the circular arc. Where two alleys
intersect, a ten-foot cutoff shall be provided.
   (B)   Slope. Whenever a street intersects another street, no part of the
centerline of one street within 50 feet of the near curb line of the other
street shall have a slope above such intersection in excess of 8% or below such
intersection in excess of 6% and the maximum grade of either street within an
intersection shall be 4%.
   (C)   Angle of intersection. The centerlines of streets shall intersect as
nearly at right angles as possible, but in no case shall they intersect at less
than 75 degrees or more than 105 degrees.
   (D)   Jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 200 feet shall
be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 151.054) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.055 HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL CURVES.
   Sight distance on all streets shall be established in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   Curvature. The minimum radius of curvature for arterial streets shall
be 300 feet on the centerline, and for local service streets 100 feet on the
centerline.
   (B)   Reverse curves. A tangent of at least 100 feet in length shall be
provided between reverse curves.
   (C)   Grade changes. All changes of grade shall be connected by vertical
curves of minimum length equal to 15 times the algebraic difference in the rate
of grade for main and secondary thoroughfares and one-half this minimum length
for minor or local service streets.
(Prior Code, § 151.055) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.056 STREET GRADES AND ELEVATIONS.
   The grade of no street shall be less than 0.8% or exceed 12% unless
necessitated by exceptional topography, and the grade of main or secondary
thoroughfares shall not exceed 7%.
(Prior Code, § 151.056) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.057 DEAD-END STREETS.
   Dead-end streets designed to be so permanently, shall be provided with a
turnaround having an outside diameter of at least 80 feet at the property line.
(Prior Code, § 151.057) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.058 PRIVATE STREETS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   (A)   If at all feasible, new private streets, alleys or ways shall not be
created or extended and existing ones shall be brought into the ultimate plan
for the area.
   (B)   Reserve strips controlling the access to streets or other public
rights-of-way shall not be approved unless such strips are deemed necessary for
the protection of the public welfare or substantial property rights as
determined by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission, a temporary
turnaround or a temporary connection to another street shall be provided by the
subdivider. Such streets shall be built in accordance with specifications on
file in the City Manager’s office.
(Prior Code, § 151.058) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.059 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Duplication. The name of a new street shall not duplicate existing or
platted street names in the county or approximate such names in spelling or
sound of pronunciation or by the use of alternate suffixes such as “Lane”,
“Way”, “Drive”, “Court”, “Avenue” or “Street”.
   (B)   Continuation of streets. New streets in continuation or when in
alignment with an existing or platted street shall bear the name as such
street.
   (C)   Approval of street name. All street names shall be approved by the
Planning Commission before approval of the subdivision plat.
(Prior Code, § 151.059) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.060 PROVISION OF ALLEYS.
   (A)   Residential alleys. Alleys shall be avoided in residential districts.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial alleys. In commercial and industrial areas,
adequate alleys or off-street loading and unloading space, where needed for
loading and unloading or access purposes, shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 151.060) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.061 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   Prohibition of development in flood susceptible areas. Land subject to
flooding and land deemed to be topographically unsuitable for residential
development shall not be platted for residential use or for any other use which
may increase the danger of health, life, property or aggravate erosion or flood
hazards. Such land within the subdivision shall be set aside on the plat for
such uses as will not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or
will not result in conditions contrary to the public welfare. To ensure that
lots will be located where they will provide flood-free home sites, the
Commission may require the subdivider to provide elevation and flood profiles
sufficient to demonstrate the sites will be free from the danger of flooding.
   (B)   Stream easement. If a stream flows through or adjacent to the proposed
subdivision, the plat shall provide for a floodway easement. For the smaller
streams, the plat shall also provide for channel improvement to carry all
reasonable floods within banks. The lower floor elevations of houses shall be
high enough to be well above the extraordinary flood. The floodway easement
shall be wide enough to provide for future enlargement of the stream channel as
adjacent areas become more highly developed and runoff rates are increased.
   (C)   Streets. Approval will not be given for subdivision streets which
would be subject to inundation or flooding. In order that no portion of the
subdivision would become isolated by floods all streets must have flood-free
elevations.
(Prior Code, § 151.061) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
Cross-reference:
   Construction in flood hazard areas, see
Ch. 156
§ 151.062 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Arrangement. The arrangement of blocks shall be such as to provide for
convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic.
   (B)   Length. Blocks shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 400 feet in
length except as the Planning Commission considers necessary to secure
efficient use of land or desired features of street layout.
   (C)   Width. The width blocks shall ordinarily be sufficient to allow for
two tiers of lots with rear easements as required.
(Prior Code, § 151.062) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.063 LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Size. Lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory sites for buildings and shall be properly related to topography.
All platted lots shall conform to or exceed the requirements of the zoning
district in which they are located and the use for which they are intended.
   (B)   Frontage and width.
      (1)   Generally. Lots fronting on a street having a centerline radius of
less than 600 feet and lots fronting on the rounded end of a cul-de-sac shall
conform to the minimum width at the building line, and the minimum frontage at
street right-of-way as required by the zoning code (Chapter 150);
      (2)   Double frontage. Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development with traffic
arteries or otherwise required by topography or orientation; and
      (3)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be made wider than the required
minimum width for interior lots to permit conformance to the setback line on
the side street. In no case shall a corner lot be so narrow that minimum zoning
requirements cannot be met.
   (C)   Lot depth.
      (1)   Conformance to zoning. Each lot shall be of such a depth that front
yard and rear yard requirements of the zoning code plus a reasonable building
site shall be provided.
      (2)   Maximum depth. The maximum depth of a lot shall not be greater than
three times the width of the lot except in unusual cases, and lots which
contain over five acres of area. Lots over five acres of area shall not be less
than 250 feet in width at any location.
      (3)   Extra depth and width in certain cases. Additional depth shall be
required where a residential lot in a subdivision backs up to a railroad right-
of-way, a high pressure gasoline or gas line, arterial road, and industrial
area or other existing land use which has a detrimental effect on the
residential use of the property and where no street is provided at the rear of
such lot. Where a residential lot has its side line adjacent to any of the
above, appropriate additional width shall be required.
   (D)   Usable lots.
      (1)   Building lots. All subdivisions shall result in the creation of
lots which are developable and capable of being built upon. No subdivision
shall create lots which are impractical for improvement due to steepness of
terrain, dangerous soil conditions, location of watercourses or other natural
physical conditions.
      (2)   Uninhabitable lots. Proposed lots which do not provide a site
capable of being built upon or are not free from flooding shall be deemed to be
uninhabitable and shall not be platted for residential occupancy nor for such
other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property, or aggravate
flood hazards, but such land within the subdivision shall be set aside for such
uses which are not endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or which
will not produce unsatisfactory living conditions. Acceptable fill material may
be used in inundated areas to render lots habitable if such fill does not
inhibit the flow of the waters and thereby unduly increase flood heights.
      (3)   Strips or parcels. No remnants of property shall be left which do
not conform to lot requirements or which are not required for a private or
public utility purpose, or which are not accepted by the city for an
appropriate use.
      (4)   Lot side lines. The side lines of lots shall normally be straight
and so far as practical, should preferably be at right angles to straight
street lines and radial to curved street lines of that street toward which the
lot faces.
   (E)   Large lots. When land is subdivided into parcels which are larger than
normal lots, these shall be of such shape and dimensions as to render possible
the re-subdivision of any such parcels into normal lots and streets in
accordance with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.063) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code lot requirements, see §
150.013
§ 151.064 PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Location. Pedestrian ways, at least ten feet in width including a
paved walkway at least four feet in width, may be required as follows:
      (1)   Near the center and entirely across the block for blocks which are
over 900 feet in length;
      (2)   To correct dead-end streets; or
      (3)   To provide access to parks, schools, shopping centers or similar
facilities.
   (B)   Grade. The grade of no pedestrian way shall exceed 15% unless steps of
an acceptable design are constructed.
(Prior Code, § 151.064) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.065 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements. Public utility easements at least ten feet in total
width may be required along the rear and sides of lots where needed for the
accommodation of a public utility, drainage or sanitary structure, or any
combination of the above. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission,
additional easement width shall be provided.
   (B)   Watercourses. The subdivider shall dedicate rights-of-way or provide
easements for storm drainage purpose which conform substantially with the lines
of any natural watercourses, channels, streams or creeks which traverse the
subdivision or for any new channel which is established to substitute for a
natural watercourse, channel, stream or creek. Such rights-of-way or easements
shall be of a width which will provide for the maintenance needs of the channel
and incidental structures.
   (C)   Slope easements. Where a cut or fill road slope is outside the normal
right-of-way of the street, a slope easement shall be provided of sufficient
width to permit maintenance of the slopes by the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.065) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.066 PUBLIC SITES.
   Due consideration must be given to the allocation of suitable property for
schools, parks and playgrounds, to be dedicated, or to be reserved for the
common use of all property owners within the subdivision by covenant in the
deeds. Especially appropriate for such preservation are areas with unusual
natural feature or beauty and areas of historical significance. The Planning
Commission may require that at least 5% of the net area of every plat,
exclusive of streets, should be set aside as a play area or park. Where the
tract contains less than 40 acres, such reservation for open space should be
combined, wherever possible, with similar reservations of adjoining tracts.
(Prior Code, § 151.066) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT REGULATIONS
§ 151.080 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; BOND.
   (A)   For subdivisions platted within the jurisdiction of the Planning
Commission and in which improvements as mentioned hereafter or elsewhere in
these regulations are involved, such improvements shall have been:
      (1)   Constructed or installed; and
      (2)   Accepted for maintenance by the appropriate agency or organization
prior to the consideration of the subdivision plat by the Commission.
   (B)   However, in lieu of such completion and acceptance, the Commission may
accept the existence of a bond, certified by the City Law Director as valid and
enforceable by the city, to secure to the city the actual construction and
installation of such improvements or utilities at a time and according to the
approved improvement plans.
(Prior Code, § 151.080) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.081 IMPROVEMENTS TO BE MADE IN OFFICIAL STREETS ONLY.
   No board, public officer or authority shall accept, lay out, improve or
authorize utilities to be laid in any street within the territory for which the
Planning Commission has adopted a major street plan unless the street has
received the legal status of a public street prior to the adoption of the major
street plan; or unless the street corresponds with a street shown on the major
street plan; or unless the street is shown on a subdivision plat or a street
plat which has been approved by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 151.081) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.082 STREET SPECIFICATIONS.
   Streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved in accordance with plans,
profiles and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by the City
Manager. The plans shall detail construction in accordance with specifications
on file in the City Manager’s office. Under no circumstances shall any street
be constructed with a traveling surface less than 27 feet wide. The Planning
Commission may require construction with a traveling surface greater than 27
feet wide for streets other than minor streets. All subsurface drainage
facilities and utilities shall be installed prior to placing the street
surface.
(Prior Code, § 151.082) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.083 ALLEY SPECIFICATIONS.
   All alleys shall be graded, surfaced and improved in accordance with plans,
profiles and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by the City
Manager. The work shall be performed in the manner prescribed in the applicable
specifications of the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.083) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.084 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   An adequate drainage system including necessary stabilized open
ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges and the
like shall be provided for proper drainage of all surface water. Cross drains
shall be provided to accommodate all natural water flow and they shall be of
sufficient length to permit full width roadways and the required slopes. The
size openings to be provided shall be determined by accepted engineering
practice, but in no case shall the pipe be less than 12 inches in diameter. The
design of storm drainage facilities shall be in accordance with storm drainage
design criteria prepared by the City Engineer and approved by the City Manager.
Where any natural watercourse is to be disturbed or blocked, adequate provision
shall be made to handle the water. Cross drains shall be built on a straight
line and grade and shall be laid on a firm base, but not on rock.
   (B)   Pipes shall be laid with their spigot ends pointing in the direction
of the flow and with their ends fitted and matched to provide tight joints and
a smooth uniform invert. They shall be placed at a sufficient depth below the
roadbed to avoid dangerous pressure of impact, and in no case shall the top of
the pipe be less than two feet below the roadbed. The City Manager will refer
storm drainage plans to the City Engineer for approval of design.
(Prior Code, § 151.084) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.085 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all streets, in
accordance with applicable specifications of the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.085) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.086 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs of a type which conforms to applicable specifications of
the city shall be installed as follows:
   (A)   One street sign at the intersection of two minor streets; and
   (B)   Two street signs on diagonally opposite corners where a minor street
intersects with a major thoroughfare or collector street, or where a collector
street intersects a major thoroughfare, or where two collector streets or two
major thoroughfares intersect.
(Prior Code, § 151.086) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.087 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivision shall be provided with a sanitary sewerage network
which shall be connected to a sanitary sewer system of a governmental
subdivision or its agency, and comply with the requirements of the appropriate
public authority.
   (B)   Upon written determination by the Metropolitan Sewer District that
sanitary sewers are not accessible, aerobic treatment systems will be permitted
if approval has been obtained from all appropriate governmental agencies,
including the Board of Health and the Metropolitan Sewer District, and the
State Environmental Protection Agency. The aerobic treatment system will comply
with all applicable sections of the State Department of Health’s Home Sewage
Disposal Rules as existent on the date of adoption of this division (O.A.C. §§
3701-29-01 to 3701-29-21, effective January 1, 2015). In addition, the
following requirements apply:
      (1)   Each lot must have its own aerobic system;
      (2)   Class I aerobic systems shall be used;
      (3)   Pickup lines are the responsibility of each homeowner; two or more
pickup lines shall be considered a sewer system;
      (4)   Discharge to be piped to the evident watercourse;
      (5)   Chlorinators suitable for Class I systems must be installed,
maintained and secured by a lock box, all to be maintained at the property
owner’s expense;
      (6)   The system must be serviced at intervals in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendation, or every six months. The homeowner shall
maintain adequate records and make those records available to the City Manager
upon request;
      (7)   The homeowner must permit such inspections as are requested by the
County Board of Health or the city; and
      (8)   In any zoning district, the minimum lot size shall be 20,000 square
feet and 80 foot minimum width (excluding handle of panhandle lot).
   (C)   Whenever the Metropolitan Sewer District determines that a sanitary
sewer is available to a property, the aerobic sewage system shall be abandoned
and the property sewer directly connected to the sanitary sewer within 24
months.
   (D)   All lots shall have installed by the builder and approved by the
Metropolitan Sewer District, piping for future sanitary sewers, which shall be
connected at the earliest time unless this requirement is waived or modified by
the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 151.087) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 88-27, passed 6-4-
1988)
§ 151.088 WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   In the city, the water distribution system shall be designed and installed
to meet the approval of the City Manager and the director of the affected water
district.
(Prior Code, § 151.088) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.089 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Standard fire hydrants shall be installed by the subdivider as a part of the
water distribution system in accordance with the specifications established by
the City Manager. Installation of fire hydrants shall be such that each lot is
within 250 feet of the fire hydrant when measured along a public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 151.089) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.090 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   Each lot shall be provided with a source of standard electrical currents. A
network of rights-of-way and easements shall be provided for utility services.
Such easements will be located at the rear of lots whenever feasible, and shall
be in conformance with the needs of the utility company. All utility services
shall be underground as provided for in Ordinance 1017, which is made a part of
these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.091 GRADING, EXCAVATIONS AND FILLING.
   (A)   All grading, excavating and filling shall be in accordance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Grading shall consist of all clearing and grubbing, excavation,
embankment, ditching, rolling, beading and shaping required to bring the entire
width of the right-of-way to the required alignment, grade and cross-section
shown on the plans.
      (1)   Preparation of subgrade. The entire right-of-way area shall first
be cleared of all tree stumps, roots, brush and other objectionable materials
and of all trees not intended for preservation. The subgrade shall be properly
shaped, rolled and uniformly compacted in accordance with the latest edition of
Construction and Material Specifications issued by the State of Ohio Department
of Highways. The City Manager may require tests by a testing laboratory to
verify conformance with compaction requirements.
      (2)   Cuts. In cuts, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft
clay, spongy materials and other objectionable materials shall be removed to a
depth of at least two feet below the natural ground surface. Fill material will
comply with this chapter.
      (3)   Fills. In fills, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft
clay, spongy materials and other objectionable materials shall be removed to a
depth of at least two feet below the natural ground surface. Fill material will
comply with this chapter.
      (4)   Cut slope. No proposed cut slope shall be steeper than one and one-
half horizontal to one vertical, except as hereinafter provided.
      (5)   Fill slope. No fill slope, existing or proposed, shall be steeper
than two vertical to one horizontal, except as hereinafter provided.
      (6)   Retaining walls.
         (a)   Retaining walls of a permanent material and of a design
satisfactory to the City Manager may be utilized in areas of excessive slopes;
and
         (b)   Retaining walls may be required whenever topographic conditions
warrant or where necessary to retain fill or cut slopes within the rights-of-
way or slope easement.
      (7)   Top soil. If grading results in the stripping of top soil, the top
soil shall not be removed from the site or used as spoil and shall be uniformly
spread over the lots as grading is finished.
      (8)   Trees. As many trees as can be reasonably utilized in the final
development plan shall be retained and the grading adjusted to the existing
grade of the trees.
      (9)   Drainage system requirements. The design of storm drainage
facilities shall be in accordance with storm drainage design criteria prepared
by the City Engineer and approved by the City Manager. (See §
151.084.)
      (10)   Road drainage system. 
         (a)   The road storm system shall serve as the primary drainage
system.
         (b)   It shall be designed to carry roadway, adjacent land and house
stormwater drainage.
         (c)   No stormwater shall be permitted to be run into the sanitary
sewer system.
            1.   Curb drainage inlets shall be provided at intervals along
roadways provided with curb and gutter drainage facilities, and a catch basin
shall be installed with each inlet.
            2.   Inlet spacing shall be adequate to limit the spread of water
to two feet into the roadway. Storm drain inlets will be spaced so that
crosswalks will not be flooded during the design storm intensity of four inches
per hour.
      (11)   Proximity of open watercourse to houses. No open watercourse or
ditch shall be constructed within 100 feet of the rear of a house, as measured
from the house to the edge of the ditch easement.
      (12)   Drainage courses along side lot lines. Any major storm drainage
courses carried along side lot lines shall be enclosed with approved pipe.
(Prior Code, § 151.091) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.092 STREET TREES.
   Street trees shall be provided as required by the Planning Commission as
follows.
   (A)   Species. The trees shall be species which are resistant to damage and
disease and which do not cause interference with underground utilities or
street lighting.
   (B)   Location. 
      (1)   Street trees shall be spaced so that there will be approximately
ten feet between branch tips when the trees are fully grown.
      (2)   No trees shall be planted within 40 feet of the intersection of two
street right-of-way lines.
      (3)   Approaches to buildings should be considered when locating trees.
   (C)   Tree size. Trees shall be at least one and one-half inches in diameter
one foot above the ground. Lowest branches shall be not less than seven feet
and no more than ten feet above the ground.
(Prior Code, § 151.092) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.105 PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING AND WORK SCHEDULE.
   Prior to the commencement of any project involving the Planning Commission
or the City Manager, a preconstruction meeting will be held to discuss the
project in regard to procedure, materials, inspections and the like.
(Prior Code, § 151.105) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.106 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Responsible official. The City Manager shall be responsible for the
inspection of all improvements.
   (B)   Authority and duties of inspectors.
      (1)   Inspectors employed by the city shall be authorized to inspect all
work done and all materials furnished. Such inspection may extend to all or any
part of the work and to the preparation, fabrication or manufacture of the
materials to be used. The inspector shall not be authorized to revoke, alter or
waive any requirements of the specifications or plans. He or she shall be
authorized to call the attention of the contractor to any failure of the work
or materials to conform to the specifications and contract. He or she shall
have the authority to reject materials which do not meet specification
requirements or suspend the portion of the work involved until any question at
issue can be referred to and decided by the City Manager.
      (2)   Periodic inspection during the installation of improvements shall
be made by the inspector to ensure conformity with the approved plans and
specifications as contained in the subdivider’s construction agreement.
   (C)   Final inspection. Upon completion of all the improvements, the
subdivider shall request, in writing, a final inspection by the City Manager.
The City Manager shall make a final inspection of streets, sanitary and storm
sewers.
(Prior Code, § 151.106) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.107 DUTIES OF THE SUBDIVIDER OR CONTRACTOR.
   The subdivider or contractor shall have available on the project, at all
times, two copies of all required plans and specifications. He or she shall
cooperate with the inspector and with other contractors in every way possible.
The subdivider and/or contractor shall, at all times, have a competent
superintendent acting as his or her agent on the project. The superintendent
shall be capable of reading and thoroughly understanding the plans and
specifications and he or she shall receive instructions from the inspector. The
superintendent shall have full authority to execute the orders or directions of
the inspector and to promptly supply such materials, tools, plant equipment and
labor as may be required. The inspector’s orders should be executed without
delay. A superintendent shall be furnished irrespective of the amount of work
sublet.
(Prior Code, § 151.107) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.108 GRADE STAKES.
   Pavement and pipe grade stakes shall be set at 25-foot intervals on
horizontal and vertical curves and for all grades less than l%. Tangent
pavement grades and pipe grades over 1% may be set at a maximum interval of 50
feet. The inspector may ask for additional grade stakes if it is deemed
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 151.108) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.109 REPAIR OF DAMAGE; FINAL CLEANUP.
   (A)   Any damage done to the improvements by construction traffic, local
traffic or by any other means shall be repaired or the damaged materials
replaced before the next item of construction is begun.
   (B)   Upon completion of the work and before acceptance, the subdivider or
contractor shall clean up all ground occupied or affected by him or her in
connection with the work. The entire area shall be kept in a neat and
presentable condition during the entire duration of the project, and left in a
neat and presentable condition satisfactory to the inspector.
(Prior Code, § 151.109) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.110 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider shall be responsible for the maintenance of the improvements
installed and shall be responsible for providing the services necessary to
guarantee access to all occupied lots, including plowing snow, until final
acceptance by City Council. The subdivider shall be given adequate and
appropriate notice by the City Manager of the need for the maintenance or
service within an appropriate time. The City Manager may perform said service
and bill the subdivider for said service. Payment shall be guaranteed by the
performance bond. The subdivider shall maintain all improvements for such
periods specified in the maintenance guarantees.
(Prior Code, § 151.110) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
§ 151.111 CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS; MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES.
   All bonds and insurance required under this section shall be secured from
companies authorized to do business in the State of Ohio and shall be deposited
and remain at all times with the City Clerk.
   (A)   Construction agreement. To assure construction and installation of
improvements required by these regulations, the subdivider shall execute a
construction agreement with the City Manager in form and substance approved by
the city’s legal counsel. This agreement shall provide that all such
improvements shall be constructed and installed at the subdivider’s expense in
compliance with the standards and specifications for each of the various types
of improvements; such improvements shall be available to and for the benefit of
the land within the subdivision and surrounding land which is in the same
service or drainage area. Any further provisions that the city’s legal counsel
may deem necessary in the public interest may be added. The construction
agreement shall further provide that when a performance guarantee has been
provided and if the improvements are not completed within the specified time,
the city, upon proper notice, may complete the improvements and recover full
costs and expenses thereof from the subdivider, and may appropriate such
portion of bonds posted for the faithful performance of said works.
   (B)   Commencement of improvements. No construction of any improvements or
clearing, grubbing and grading shall commence prior to the approval of the
construction agreement by the City Manager.
   (C)   Maintenance guarantee. The maintenance bond shall be of such amount as
determined by the City Manager and shall be arranged for a period of one year
for streets constructed with concrete pavement (includes a one-year period for
all other improvements also).
(Prior Code, § 151.111) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
VARIANCES
§ 151.125 VARIANCES TO BE BASED ON HARDSHIP.
   Where the Board of Zoning Appeals finds that unique practical difficulties
and extraordinary hardships from unusual conditions may result from strict
compliance with any of these regulations, it may vary the regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided that
such variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.125) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
§ 151.126 CONDITIONS UPON GRANT OF VARIANCE.
   In granting variances and modifications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
require and may impose such additional requirements and conditions regarding
the location, character and other features of the proposed uses as it may deem
necessary to secure substantially the objectives of the standards or
requirements of these subdivision regulations, to carry out the intent and
purpose of the subdivision regulations, and to otherwise safeguard the public
health, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 151.126) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
§ 151.127 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE OF DECISION.
   (A)   Prior to making a decision on any application, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall notify by mail of the time and place of a public hearing, the
property owner or petitioner and all abutting property owners who, in the
opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals, may be affected by such variance.
   (B)   Following the public hearing and the completion of any additional
studies or acquisitions of additional data necessitated by hearing, the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall make a decision within 30 days and notify the property
owner or petitioner of such decision.
(Prior Code, § 151.127) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 151.140 PRELIMINARY PLAT FEES.
   (A)   Fees for preliminary plats. There shall be required by the Planning
Commission a fee for each subdivision plat submitted for approval. Such fee
will not exceed the following:
      (1)   For plats of three to six lots, tracts or parcels or less, a
minimum fee of $750;
      (2)   For plats of seven to 12 lots, tracts or parcels, a minimum fee of
$1,500;
      (3)   For plats of 13 to 18 lots, tracts or parcels, a minimum fee of
$2,250; and
      (4)   For plats in excess of 18 lots, tracts or parcels, a fee of $3,000,
plus $100 for each additional lot, tract, or parcel in excess of 18.
   (B)   Architectural Review Office fee. The Architectural Review Office fee
shall be an additional 25% of the preliminary plat fee.
(Prior Code, § 151.140) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 88-11, passed 3-7-
1988)
§ 151.141 FINAL PLAN CHECKING AND FIELD INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   At the time final subdivision plans, development plans, plans,
profiles and specifications are submitted for review, the City Manager shall
prepare an estimate of the cost of reviewing and inspection of all improvement
plans. The subdivider shall thereupon deposit an additional amount of money, as
well as any Architectural Review Office fee, equal to the estimated cost. All
work done by the City Manager in connection with checking, computing and
correcting such plans for improvements shall be charged against the deposit.
   (B)   If, during the progress of the work, the cost thereof appears to
exceed the amount so deposited, the City Manager shall notify the subdivider of
this fact and shall do no further work in connection with such review until the
subdivider has deposited such additional sum of money determined necessary by
the City Manager to cover the cost of the work. The subdivider shall also pay
to the City Manager a fee to defray the total cost of field inspection of the
improvements.
   (C)   The inspection fee shall be determined by the City Manager. The
subdivider is held responsible for all inspection fees which will be payable
monthly. The bond posted by the subdivider guarantees the payment of all
inspection fees and no bonds will be released until all inspection fees have
been paid in full.
   (D)   The City Manager shall be under no duty to proceed to view any plans
or have any plans reviewed until such deposit is placed with the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.141) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 88-11, passed 3-7-
1988)
§ 151.142 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The filing fee, plan checking and field inspection fees shall be paid in
legal tender or by check or money order made payable to the city and deposited
with the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 151.142) (Ord. 1030, passed 10-19-1970)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Building Department established
   
152.02   Building Codes adopted by reference
   
152.03   Administration of Building Code
   
152.04   Building permit required and building permit fees
   
152.05   Conformance to Building and Zoning Codes; revocation
   
152.06   Unsafe, dangerous, or unsanitary buildings
   
152.07   Erection and removal of structures within certain areas
   
152.08   Notice to repair or demolish building; action by city
   
152.09   Order to vacate buildings
   
152.10   Notice in writing to vacate building
   
152.11   References in codes to city and officials
   
152.12   Variances and appeals for the Residential Building Code
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 BUILDING DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Building Department for the city, with authority to
approve plans and specifications and enforce the Ohio Building Code for
commercial construction and the Residential Code of Ohio for residential
construction within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 152.02 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the Building
Department of the city being marked and designated as the Ohio Building Code
for commercial construction and the Residential Code of Ohio for residential
construction as adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards pursuant to
R.C. § 3781.10, be and is hereby adopted as the Ohio Building Code for
commercial construction and the Residential Code of Ohio for residential
construction for regulating and governing the construction, alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and
demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories in height with separate
means of egress as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Ohio Building Code for commercial
construction and the Residential Code of Ohio for residential construction on
file in the office of the city are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 91-22, passed 3-4-1991; Ord. 05-19, passed 8-22-
2005; Ord. 06-26, passed 9-25-2006)
§ 152.03 ADMINISTRATION OF BUILDING CODE.
   The Building Department of the city shall be administered by the City
Manager, acting as Building Inspector. All plans and specifications for the
erection within this city of public buildings or parts and appurtenances
thereof that may be used as places of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, dwelling, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic
or occupancy, or use for any other purpose, by the public excepting only
single-family, two-family and three-family dwelling houses, shall be approved,
and the construction of the buildings shall be inspected by an architect or
professional engineer that is registered in the state and has at least five
years’ experience in building construction or design, if the City Manager is
not himself or herself so qualified for such building plan approval and
inspection, engaged for such purposes as a member of the staff of the Building
Department, either on a full-time or part-time basis.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 152.04 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED AND BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Commercial and public buildings.
      (1)   New buildings, alterations, additions and repairs. A flat fee of
$100 for plan review plus
$5 per $1,000 based on estimated costs will be charged. This cost shall include
site development (landscaping, paving, parking, parking lots and the like),
heating, cooling, ventilating systems and wrecking. All commercial plans shall
be subject to the ARO fee as outlined in §
150.030 and a 3% State Board of Building Standards review fee levied by the
state.
      (2)   Re-roofing and fences. A flat fee of $100 shall be charged.
      (3)   Gutters and downspouts/storm drains. A flat fee of $100 shall be
charged.
      (4)   Ductless space heaters, floor furnaces, fireplaces, infrared
heaters or other low heat producing appliances.
         (a)   500,000 BTU and under: $100 first unit, $25 each additional unit
in same building; and
         (b)   Over 500,000 BTU, fee to be figured in accordance with division
(B)(2) of this section.
      (5)   Power or process steam boilers. A flat fee of $100 per unit shall
be charged, plus an additional $25 for each additional unit.
      (6)   Signs and billboards. Signs and billboards will require a separate
permit under this division (A)(6).
         (a)   Walls signs. One dollar per square foot, minimum fee of $100.
         (b)   Projecting signs. One dollar per square foot, minimum fee of
$100.
         (c)   Roof signs, including billboards and advertising roof signs. One
dollar per square foot, with a minimum fee of $100.
         (d)   Temporary signs. A flat fee of $25 shall be charged.
         (e)   Ground signs, including billboards and other advertising signs
fastened to the ground. One dollar per square foot, minimum fee of $100.
      (7)   Fire protection sprinkler system.
         (a)   Fire protection (sprinkler and fire suppression systems) will
require a separate permit.
         (b)   Permit fee for wet or dry type system shall be $15 per 1,000
aggregate square feet, gravity or pressure tanks, or fire pumps included as an
integral part of the system.
      (8)   Fire suppression systems. Dry chemical for hoods, ducts, surface
protection:
         (a)   Where the cost is not more than $500, the fee is $50;
         (b)   Where the cost is more than $500, but less than $1,000, the fee
is $75; and
         (c)   Where the cost is $1,000 or more, the fee is $75 plus $40 for
each $1,000 or fraction thereof over $1,000.
      (9)   Smoke, fire and security systems. The fee shall be based on
furnished and installed contract price cost basis using fee schedule contained
in this division (A).
      (10)   Drainage reviews. The fee shall be based on the per hour rate
established per contract with the City Engineer.
      (11)   Temporary structures. Temporary structures with a construction
cost of less than $5,000. A flat fee of $50 plus $5 for each 100 square feet of
area or fraction thereof, based on outside dimensions.
   (B)   Residential, single- and two-family dwellings. (Three-family or more
dwellings will be governed by division (A) of this section.)
      (1)   New dwelling. Flat fee of $950 for plan review plus $100 for each
1,000 square feet of area or fraction thereof, based on outside dimensions of
the structure of each floor level to include basement, cellar and sub-cellar
floors. This fee when stated or shown on the original submission includes fees
for driveway curb cuts, patios, street openings, parking lots, heating systems
and other items normally requiring a permit if done separately.
      (2)   Alterations, additions and repairs, including detached garages.
         (a)   General. Based on the estimated cost of work the fee schedule
shall be as follows:
            1.   Where the cost is not more than $500, the fee is $40;
            2.   Where the cost is more than $500, but not more than $1,000,
the fee is $65; and
            3.   Where the cost is more than $1,000, the fee is $65 plus $15
for each $1,000 or fraction thereof, over and above the first $1,000.
         (b)   Detached sheds and other accessory or temporary structures with
a construction cost of less than $5,000. A flat fee of $30 plus $5 for each 100
square feet of area or fraction thereof, based on outside dimensions shall be
charged.
         (c)   Reroofing and fences. A flat fee of $100 shall be charged.
         (d)   Gutters and downspouts/storm drains. A flat fee of $100 shall be
charged.
         (e)   Swimming pools. Family type swimming pools manufactured for
above-ground and partially in-ground up to 20 feet in diameter, or 20 feet
square/rectangular shall be charged $50. Above 20 feet and in-ground
construction pools shall be included in division (B)(2)(a) of this section.
   (C)   Moving of buildings. A permit shall be obtained for each operation of
moving a building from a location in the city to another location. Where the
new location is upon another lot in the city, a permit shall be obtained for
constructing a new basement or foundation and such information shall be
provided as would be provided for any new building, such as proposed elevation
of floors in relation to ground, proposed grading of yard, location of sewers,
and the like. The fee for the moving work shall be based on the estimated cost
of the moving. It shall be determined in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section.
   (D)   Wrecking. A flat fee of $50 per building or structure, up to two
stories including basement and roof, plus a flat fee of $15 for each additional
story and sub-basement shall be charged.
   (E)   New or replaced furnaces/air conditioning.
      (1)   Furnaces. A flat fee of $100 shall be charged for the first unit
and an additional $25 for each additional unit.
      (2)   Air conditioning. A flat fee of $50 shall be charged for the first
unit and an additional $25 for each additional unit.
   (F)   Ductless space heaters, floor furnaces, fireplaces, infrared heaters
or other low heat producing appliances.
      (1)   500,000 BTU and under; $100 first unit, $25 each additional unit in
same building; and
      (2)   Over 500,000 BTU, fee to be figured in accordance with division (B)
(2) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 87-18, passed 5-4-1987; Ord. 88-46, passed 11-7-
1988; Ord. 88-62, passed 7-10-1989; Ord. 89-89, passed 11-29-1989; Ord. 92-81,
passed 12-7-1992; Ord. 93-20, passed 3-15-1993; Ord. 97-68, passed 1-12-1998;
Ord. 02-46, passed 1-13-2003; Ord. 04-33, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 17-11, passed
12-11-2017; Ord. 24-04, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 152.05 CONFORMANCE TO BUILDING AND ZONING CODES; REVOCATION.
   No dwelling house or public building shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, repaired, altered or removed, nor shall the equipment of any such
building or of the premises thereof be hereafter erected, constructed,
installed, repaired, altered or removed, except in conformity with the City
Building Code governing the same, and pursuant to approval of the plans and
specifications in connection therewith, and issuance of a building permit
therefor, by the Building Department. It shall likewise be unlawful to occupy
or use any such building or equipment that has been erected, constructed,
altered or otherwise dealt with in violation of such code. Plans and
specifications submitted for such approval shall clearly indicate the
intentions of the applicant relative to all items, elements and aspects of
construction, occupancy, and use regulated by the code and the city zoning
code; and at the time of such submission for approval, one complete set shall
be furnished to the Building Department for its permanent retention. All
dimensions shown on such plans relative to location and size of lots shall be
based on actual survey; and the lot to be built upon, and the location of the
structure to be built thereon, shall be staked out before construction is
started. Building permits shall expire when no construction is started
thereunder within six months from date of issuance, and may be revoked when
construction thereunder is discontinued for one year, or when there is
violation thereof under any of the provisions of such Building or zoning code
or any of the terms of such permits, or when the continuance of any work
thereunder becomes dangerous to life or property.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 854, passed 10-18-1965;
Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 UNSAFE, DANGEROUS, OR UNSANITARY BUILDINGS.
   Whenever it shall appear that an unsafe, dangerous or unsanitary condition
exists in connection with any building subject to the provisions of this
chapter, or that any condition exists constituting a violation of any provision
of this chapter or of any law relating to the same subject matter, the Building
Inspector shall forthwith give notice of such condition or violation to the
owner or agent in charge of such building, and shall order the same to be made
safe, secure or sanitary, and to be placed in substantial compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, or to be taken down and removed.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 ERECTION AND REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES WITHIN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The erection of any structure or of any additions to any structure is
prohibited in the following described area in the city unless the outer walls
and frame of the structures or additions are constructed of brick and mortar,
stone, concrete or other fireproof material.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the use of ornamental wooden trim on
structures so long as it meets with the approval of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   The areas to be covered by the restrictions in this section known as
the fire limits of the city shall be all areas that are presently located or
hereafter located in Business A, Business B and Business O under the existing
zoning code or any amendments thereto.
   (D)   No structure or addition to a structure shall be moved from one lot to
another within this area or moved from an area not covered by this section into
the fire limits ordinance section unless the outer walls and frames and
additions meet the requirements of division (A) above.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any temporary building not over one
story in height erected for the temporary use of any builder or contractor
engaged in construction operations within this area, the erection and use of
which is necessary to the carrying out of the operations. No building shall be
erected or moved into the area without a permit therefor from the City Manager.
The building shall be removed by the builder or contractor promptly upon
completion of the operations.
   (F)   Any structure or any addition to any structure erected contrary to, or
not removed in accordance with, the provisions of this section shall, after 30
days’ written notice to the owners or agent of the owners of the structure or
addition, be removed by and pursuant to the order of the Manager, and the
expense of removal shall be charged to the owners.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall govern. They shall prevail over
any prior ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 989, passed 11-12-1970; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-
1972; Ord. 1155, passed 3-18-1974) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 NOTICE TO REPAIR OR DEMOLISH BUILDING; ACTION BY CITY.
   (A)   If any such building shall in the opinion of the Building Inspector
represent an immediate hazard to life or property, his or her notice shall
order remedial action to be taken forthwith, and shall require the owner or
agent served to advise him or her in writing immediately as to the intention of
such owner or agent with reference thereto. If, within 24 hours after service
of a notice, the owner or agent fails so to advise the Building Inspector, or,
in lieu thereof, fails to comply fully with the order, or if at any time the
owner or agent refuses to comply with the order, or advises the Building
Inspector of his or her intention to comply and then fails to proceed promptly
with such compliance, or commences such compliance and fails diligently to
carry it to completion, the Building Inspector shall be authorized to enter
upon the subject premises, without further delay, with force sufficient to make
such building or any part thereof, secure or to demolish or remove it as he or
she may consider necessary for the public safety and welfare. The owner of the
subject premises, or any other persons responsible therefor, shall be liable to
the city for the entire cost thereby incurred.
   (B)   In any event, and in every case the Building Inspector shall cause a
written or printed notice to be placed on the premises as a warning to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
Penalty, §
152.99
§ 152.09 ORDER TO VACATE BUILDINGS.
   The Building Inspector shall be authorized to order the vacation of
buildings when occupied; or when any work, operation or construction is being
performed therein or thereon is in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or is in his or her opinion, unsafe or unsanitary; or when the owner,
agent or tenant fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order issued by the
Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 NOTICE IN WRITING TO VACATE BUILDING.
   Every order of vacation shall be in writing and shall be served upon the
owner, agent or tenant, stating the reasons for the order and specifying the
time by which such vacation must be effected. When the Building Inspector shall
deem it necessary, a notice of vacation shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the subject building. After the posting of any such notice or the service of
any such order of vacation, it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the
occupancy of the subject premises, or any portion thereof, until the provisions
of this chapter and the requirements of all lawful orders issued by the
Building Inspector are complied with. When it shall appear to the Building
Inspector that the reasons for his or her order of vacation have ceased to
exist and that the subject building and the occupancy thereof are in compliance
with law and his or her orders, he or she shall in writing rescind such order
of vacation.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 REFERENCES IN CODES TO CITY AND OFFICIALS.
   All references to the state or the county, or to officials, departments or
agencies of the state or county, or to the Ohio Revised Code or the County
Building Code, in the Ohio Building Code for commercial construction and the
Residential Code of Ohio for residential construction shall be deemed to refer
to the city, its equivalent officials or departments, and the provisions of
this chapter, as applicable, and any other references of a particular nature in
the Ohio Building Code for commercial construction and the Residential Code of
Ohio for residential construction context thereof as the City Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972)
§ 152.12 VARIANCES AND APPEALS FOR THE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Purpose. The city has adopted the Hamilton County Building Code which
in turn has adopted the Residential Code of Ohio (O.A.C. Chapters 4101:8-1 to
4101:8-43, as amended and R.C. Chapter 3781, as amended). The purpose of this
section is to promote the public health, safety and welfare by creating a local
appeals process in order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the City Manager or Building Inspector relative to the
application of the Residential Code of Ohio (O.A.C. Chapters 4101:8-1 to 4101:
8-43, as amended and R.C. Chapter 3781, as amended).
   (B)   Appeals process.
      (1)   Any owner, builder, contractor or any person, firm or corporation
having a legal or equitable interest in a residential property (“eligible
appellant”) has the right to appeal any decision, order or determination made
by the City Manager or Building Inspector relative to the application of the
Residential Code of Ohio to said residential property. An eligible appellant
desiring to appeal any decision, order or determination made by the City
Manager or Building Inspector may do so by filing a written appeal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Requests for an appeals hearing shall be made in writing to the
Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days of the date of the decision, order or
determination of the City Manager or Building Inspector. Each request shall be
accompanied with a processing fee of $75. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
schedule a hearing within 60 days of receipt of the request and notify the
appellant of the hearing time, date and location by regular mail.
      (3)   All adjudication proceedings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be conducted in accordance with R.C. §§ 119.09 and 119.13, as required by R.C.
§ 3781.031. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to affirm,
modify or reserve the order, decision or ruling of the City Manager or the
Building Inspector and the authority to grant a variance from the terms of the
Residential Code of Ohio as set forth below. All decisions of the Board of
Zoning Appeals pertaining to appeals and variances related to the Residential
Code of Ohio shall be in writing.
         (a)   A decision, order or determination made by the City Manager or
Building Inspector may be reversed or modified, in full or in part, by the
Board of Zoning Appeals if it finds:
            1.   The decision, order or determination is contrary to the
Residential Code of Ohio or any other applicable law, rules, regulations and
ordinances;
            2.   The decision, order or determination is contrary to a
reasonable interpretation or application of the Residential Code of Ohio or any
other applicable law, rules, regulations and ordinances; or
            3.   That a variance from the provisions of the Residential Code of
Ohio, rules, regulations or ordinances, in a specific case, depending on the
facts established by the appellant, will not be contrary to the public interest
or safety of persons using said premises and where a literal enforcement of
such code provisions would result in unnecessary hardship.
         (b)   Such determination by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be based
on the evidence presented at the hearing.
      (4)   For purposes of the appeals hearing, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may solicit the attendance of witnesses, production of records or documents and
may take the testimony of witnesses. All testimony shall be under oath, with a
record made and kept, along with such evidence as submitted.
      (5)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall render its decision in writing
within 60 days after the conclusion of the appeals hearing. A certified copy of
the decision shall be mailed to the appellant by regular mail. Decisions of the
Board of Zoning Appeals, including all conditions, shall be enforced by the
City Manager or Building Inspector in keeping with the deadlines set by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (6)   All decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals are final. However, an
appeal from the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals may be made to the
Court of Common Pleas in accordance with the applicable law, rule or
regulation. Such appeals must be made within 30 days of the date of the written
order of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (7)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section,
all appeals related to the Commercial Building Code (O.A.C. Chapters 4101:1-
1 et seq., as amended and R.C. Chapter 3781, as amended) shall be to the
Hamilton County Board of Building Appeals, if so contracted by the City Council
or the Ohio Board of Building Appeals, in accordance with the Ohio Revised
Code.
(Prior Code, § 152.12) (Ord. 91-22, passed 3-4-1991; Ord. 13-12, passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who owns or controls any buildings, and violates
any regulation under, or provision or amendment of this chapter, or violates
any certificate or permit issued thereunder or fails to obey any lawful order
of the Building Inspector issued pursuant thereto shall upon conviction for
such violation or failure be fined not more than $150. Each day in which such
person or entity continues in such violation or failure shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person or entity who assists in any violation shall upon
conviction of such assistance be fined not more than $150. Each day in which a
person or entity continues to assist in such violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. 726, passed 2-6-1961; Ord. 1087, passed 3-20-1972;
Ord. 88-46, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 153: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Scope
   
153.003   Definitions
Dangerous and Unsafe Buildings
   
153.015   Defects
Environmental Requirements
   
153.030   General
   
153.031   Property areas and structures
   
153.032   Fire protection features
   
153.033   General maintenance and repair
   
153.034   Animals or fowl
Space and Occupancy Requirements
   
153.045   Basic facilities
   
153.046   Installation and maintenance
   
153.047   Occupancy of dwelling units below grade
Responsibilities of Persons
   
153.060   General
   
153.061   Responsibilities of owners or operators
   
153.062   Responsibilities of occupants
   
153.063   Maintenance of property being developed or excavated during periods
of inactivity
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.075   Enforcement officer
   
153.076   Coordination of enforcement
   
153.077   Inspections
   
153.078   Unsafe, dangerous and unsanitary buildings
   
153.079   Service of notice
   
153.080   Written order of vacation
   
153.081   Failure to comply with code regulations
Shrubbery; Standing Water
   
153.095   Definitions; keeping down weeds
   
153.096   Definitions; removing standing water
   
153.097   Definitions; managed natural landscaping
   
153.098   Definitions; abandoned property; abatement
   
153.099   Native plant list
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Property Maintenance Code is to establish a minimum
standard necessary for the preservation of the public safety, health and
general welfare in all buildings or premises used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes or other human occupation, as well as all other types of
unoccupied structures and to assign the responsibility of owners, operators and
occupants of such buildings, structures and accessory buildings.
(Prior Code, § 158.01) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 153.002 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this Property Maintenance Code are supplementary to
the sections of the Building Code. Conditions not in compliance with the
requirements of this code or the Building Code relating to the construction,
use and maintenance of buildings and structures are deemed to be safety and
sanitation hazards. All the provisions of this code and Building Code as
related above shall be retroactive and shall apply to all buildings and
structures; except whenever the applicable provisions of the Building Code
exceed this code or other legal requirements that were in effect at the time of
either the original construction, addition or reconstruction, as applicable,
then the least restrictive requirements of that particular construction,
addition or reconstruction shall apply.
   (B)   However, if the City Manager determines that the application of the
least restrictive requirement will result in an unsafe, unsanitary or other
hazardous condition, the City Manager shall apply a more restrictive
requirement up to, but not exceeding, the requirements of the then-current
Building Code.
   (C)   Appeals from the City Manager’s application of the more restrictive
requirement shall be heard by the Board of Zoning Appeals upon proper
application.
   (D)   The final determination shall be by a majority vote of the Board of
Zoning Appeals members.
   (E)   A public hearing shall not be required. If this code is determined to
be in conflict with the Building Code, the Building Code shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 158.02) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby
defined.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   (C)   The singular number shall include the plural and the plural, the
singular.
   (D)   The word “building” shall include the word “structure” and the word
“shall” is mandatory and not merely directory.
      DETERIORATION. The condition or appearance of the exterior of a building
or part thereof, characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling or cracking,
peeling, rusting or other evidence of physical decay, neglect or lack of
maintenance.
      EXTERIOR OF THE PREMISES. Those portions of a building which are exposed
to public view and the open space of any premises outside of any building.
      GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests on
the premises which constitute a health hazard.
      NUISANCE. That which is defined by the statutes of the state and declared
thereby to be a NUISANCE, and also includes conditions dangerous to human life
or detrimental to the health of persons on or near the premises where the
conditions exist, and where the conditions are perilous by active and negligent
operation thereof, and unsanitary conditions or anything offensive to the
senses or dangerous to health.
      OCCUPANT. Any person living and sleeping in a dwelling unit or having
actual possession of said dwelling unit or any person who leases or rents a
nonresidential building, structure or any portion thereof.
      OWNER. Any person, who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
have legal or equitable title to any premises, with or without the accompanying
actual possession thereof; or shall have charge, care or control as owner or
agent of the owner; or as executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
guardian of an estate, or as a mortgagee in possession.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, association, partnership, trustee,
lessee, agent or assignee.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon.
      REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes) including but not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, dead animals and
industrial wastes; an accumulation of brush, broken glass, stumps and roots
that present a safety hazard, and includes garbage, trash and debris which
present an unsanitary and/or safety hazard.
      RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, tin cans, yard clippings,
leaves, wood, glass, crockery, plastics and similar materials.
(Prior Code, § 158.03) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 153.015 DEFECTS.
   All buildings or structures having defects as set forth herein shall be
deemed dangerous or unsafe:
   (A)   Those whose walls, floors, foundations or other members are so out of
plumb, level, original position or so deteriorated, or overloaded as to be
unlikely to perform their intended structural function, or are in such
condition or of such size as to cause stresses in any structural members likely
to result in failure or collapse;
   (B)   Those which are or have become so dilapidated, termite-infested,
decayed or unsafe, or which so substantially fail to provide the basic elements
of shelter or safety that, for that reason, they are unfit for human habitation
or dangerous to life or property;
   (C)   Those which are not provided with required and approved safe and
adequate means of egress;
   (D)   Those which in the opinion of the City Manager and a responsible
officer of the fire company constitute a serious fire hazard because of their
use, construction, unprotected exposure or lack of maintenance; and
   (E)   Those which are unsanitary or are a hazard to safety, health or
general welfare of any occupants or the public.
(Prior Code, § 158.05) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.030 GENERAL.
   The provisions of §§
153.030 through
153.034 shall govern the minimum conditions of buildings and structures. Every
building or structure and the premises on which it stands shall comply with the
conditions herein prescribed as they apply thereto.
(Prior Code, § 158.10) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 153.031 PROPERTY AREAS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or otherwise permit
or let to another for occupancy any building which does not comply with the
following requirements. The City Manager shall cause inspections to be made of
such premises, as necessary, to secure compliance with these requirements.
   (B)   Sanitation. All interior and exterior property areas shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of
rubbish and garbage that might constitute a health hazard.
   (C)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon or within any building or
structure located thereon.
   (D)   Noxious weeds. All property areas shall be kept free from species of
weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental to the public health.
Noxious weeds include non-native plants and weeds, such as exotic plants that
are unnatural growths within the particular region of the city and southeast
Ohio.
(Prior Code, § 158.11) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993; Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-
2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.032 FIRE PROTECTION FEATURES.
   Every building intended for human occupancy shall be protected with such
fire-protective features as may be required for the adequate protection of the
occupants thereof. The minimum requirements for such protection shall be as
required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 158.12) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.033 GENERAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Every plumbing installation, gutter and downspout, supplied facility,
piece of equipment or utility shall be constructed or installed so that it will
function safely and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
   (B)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this Property Maintenance Code to
be removed, shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or
occupied by him or her except for such temporary interruption as may be
necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in process or during
temporary emergencies.
   (C)   No object shall be placed and no restraining devices shall be
installed so as to interfere with the proper functioning of a required fire
door or other protective device or system.
   (D)   Each gas outlet, including a valve or cock outlet that is not being
used immediately, and each unused gas illuminating fixture shall be removed and
the line shall be securely closed gastight with a threaded plug or cap or, in
lieu thereof, a quick disconnect device that is listed by the American Gas
Association, Inc., Laboratories.
(Prior Code, § 158.13) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.034 ANIMALS OR FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful to raise, breed or harbor any animals or fowl for
commercial purposes within the limits of the city, or for any other purpose
wherein they constitute a potential hazard or public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 158.14) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
SPACE AND OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.045 BASIC FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let another for the purpose of
living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein any dwelling unit which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Sanitary facilities. The following minimum sanitary facilities shall
be supplied and maintained.
      (1)   Toilet. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a room,
separate from the habitable rooms, which affords privacy and which is equipped
with a flush toilet.
      (2)   Lavatory. Every dwelling unit shall contain a lavatory.
      (3)   Bathtub or shower. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which
affords privacy to a person in the room, and which is equipped with a bathtub
or shower.
      (4)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink
apart from the lavatory required under division (A)(3) above.
   (B)   Water and sewer system. Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or
shower, and toilet required under the provisions of §§
153.045 through
153.047 shall be properly connected to either a public water and sewer system
or to an approved private water system. At no time shall it be permitted to
discharge waste into any waste disposal unit except as approved by the city.
All sinks, lavatories, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with running
water.
   (C)   Operation of heating facilities and incinerators. Every heating or
water-heating facility shall be installed and shall operate in accordance with
the requirements of the air pollution control ordinances of the city and the
Madeira-Indian Hill Fire Department.
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish storage facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling, multi-family dwelling and dwelling unit shall be
supplied with approved containers and covers for the storage of rubbish. The
owner, operator or agent in control of the dwelling or multi-family dwelling
shall be responsible for the removal of the rubbish.
      (2)   No dwelling or dwelling unit shall be deemed to comply with the
requirements of this code unless:
         (a)   Rubbish and garbage stored outdoors is stored in one or more
rubbish storage boxes or containers which are fly-tight, rodent-proof and
reasonably waterproof; and
         (b)   Rubbish and garbage stored in the basement or cellar or in an
enclosed structure such as a shed, is stored in nonflammable containers.
(Prior Code, § 158.20) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.046 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Gas systems and fixtures. All gas systems and fixtures shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with Duke Energy specifications.
   (B)   Electrical outlets and fixtures.
      (1)   Every electrical outlet and fixture shall be properly installed and
maintained according to the specifications of the National Electrical Code.
      (2)   No building shall be deemed to comply with the requirement of this
code unless:
         (a)   No temporary wiring is used, except extension cords which run
directly from portable electric fixtures to convenience outlets and which do
not lie underneath floor-covering materials or extend through doorways,
transoms or other similar apertures through structural elements; and
         (b)   Each electric circuit has wire and compatible fuses or circuit
breakers necessary to carry the electric load, and protect against accidental
overloading, as specified by the National Electrical Code.
   (C)   Correction of defective system. Where it is found, in the opinion of
the City Manager, that the electrical system in a building constitutes a hazard
to the occupants or the building itself by reason of inadequate service,
improper fusing, insufficient outlets, improper wiring or installation,
deterioration or damage of the above, or for similar reasons, he or she shall
order the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   (D)   Heating facilities. Every building intended for occupancy shall have
heating facilities. The owner of the heating facilities shall be required to
see that they are properly installed, safely maintained, in good working
condition and capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and toilet rooms located therein.
(Prior Code, § 158.21) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.047 OCCUPANCY OF DWELLING UNITS BELOW GRADE.
   No cellar or basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling
unit unless provided with adequate ventilation and natural or artificial light.
(Prior Code, § 158.22) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS
§ 153.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   Where in this Property Maintenance Code the obligation for observance
is not otherwise clearly designated, the respective responsibilities of owner,
operator and occupant shall be as specified in §§
153.061 and
153.062.
   (B)   A contract between the owner and operator, the operator and occupant,
or the owner and occupant, with regard to compliance with the provisions of
this code, shall not relieve any part of their direct responsibility under this
code.
   (C)   Every owner shall be responsible for complying with all the provision
of this code, other than those specifically excepted.
(Prior Code, § 158.25) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 153.061 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OR OPERATORS.
   The responsibilities of owners or operators shall be as follows.
   (A)   Every owner or operator of a dwelling containing two or more
apartments or dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean
and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises
thereof.
   (B)   No owner or operator shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any
vacant apartment or dwelling unit unless it is reasonably clean, sanitary and
fit for human occupancy.
   (C)   The owner or operator of a multiple dwelling containing two or more
household units shall supply approved rubbish and garbage disposal facilities
or approved garbage storage containers for all the apartments or household
units in the dwelling, shall be responsible for the clean and sanitary
maintenance of the common storage or disposal facilities, and shall be
responsible for the removal of the rubbish.
   (D)   Every owner or operator of every rooming house shall dispose of all
garbage and rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in storage or
disposal facilities which are safe and sanitary.
   (E)   Every owner or occupant of any building shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests as follows:
      (1)   Whenever infestation exists in any apartment or household unit in
any dwelling or in the shared or public areas of any dwelling, and it is not
practicable to establish occupant responsibility; or
      (2)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner or operator
to maintain a building in a rodent-proof or substantially insect-proof
condition.
(Prior Code, § 158.26) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The responsibilities of occupants shall be as follows.
      (1)   Every occupant of a building shall maintain in a clean and sanitary
condition all parts of the premises which he or she occupies, uses and
controls; and shall be responsible for his or her own misuse of areas or
facilities available in common.
      (2)   Every occupant of a building occupied by more than one apartment,
household unit or business shall provide himself or herself with approved
storage containers or disposal facilities, and shall dispose of all rubbish,
ashes, garbage and other wastes in a clean and sanitary manner by placing them
in an approved storage or disposal facility, in accordance with regulations of
the Board of Health.
      (3)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible
for hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same
are required under the provisions of this code, except where the owner has
agreed to supply those services.
      (4)   Occupants of a single-family dwelling shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises.
      (5)   Occupants of any building shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the premises
whenever the occupants are at fault.
      (6)   Occupants of a building shall keep all facilities, including
plumbing fixtures and cooking equipment, in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care and the proper use and
operation thereof.
      (7)   No occupant shall deposit material in any plumbing or electrical
fixture which will result in stoppage of or damage to the fixture. It shall be
the responsibility of the occupant to correct any stoppages determined to be
due to improper use or neglect.
      (8)   The occupant, when moving to another location, shall leave the
vacated premises in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Any occupant of a building or premises who creates a condition which
constitutes a violation of the standards established by this code shall be
punishable for a violation in accordance with the penalty provisions of §
153.999.
(Prior Code, § 158.27) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY BEING DEVELOPED OR EXCAVATED DURING PERIODS
OF INACTIVITY.
   (A)   Background, purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose and intent of this section is to establish minimum
standards for the maintenance of property being developed or excavated and
construction sites during periods of inactivity. The requirements contained in
this section are designed to minimize the possibility of property damage and
personal injury and simultaneously minimize the adverse visual effects of
halted or abandoned construction projects through cooperative efforts between
the property owners, developer, surrounding property owners, the county and the
city. The City Council believes that the requirements of this section
appropriately balance the rights provided to developers and property owners
with the rights of the city and surrounding property owners.
      (2)   The city recognizes that the Board of County Commissioners has
adopted Rules and Regulations for the Construction, Operation, Maintenance and
use of the Storm Drainage System of Hamilton County, Ohio (“County Rules and
Regulations”). The city intends to supplement such regulations, but in cases of
inconsistency or preemption, defer to the County Rules and Regulations. The
city further intends to supplement rather than override any other provisions of
this Chapter 153 and the Building Code as they apply to the property that is
subject to this section.
      (3)   Additionally, the purposes of this section are to:
         (a)   Prevent incomplete, abandoned or halted construction from
increasing flood or drainage hazards to others;
         (b)   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizens from the hazards of flooding and diminished property values;
         (c)   Lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
         (d)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas; and
         (e)   Preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts,
improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian
habitat, preserve recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and
enhance community and economic development.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMENCED. The beginning of a designated activity to a degree that it
visually alters the property.
      DESIGNATED ACTIVITY. The commencement of any construction or demolition
activity, including but not limited to the removal of large trees, grading or
excavation.
      PERIOD OF INACTIVITY. The voluntary or involuntary cessation of a
significant part of the designated activity for 45 consecutive days.
Furthermore, insignificant activity, such as simply moving equipment, materials
or dirt without meaningful re-commencement of designated activities as
determined by the City Manager shall not toll the running of the 45-day period.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   Any person who owns a vacant, developed or undeveloped property on
which one or more or a combination of designated activity are commenced and are
subsequently subject to a period of inactivity, shall undertake, as applicable,
in the discretion of the City Manager, one or more of the following:
         (a)   Prepare the ground, apply lime and fertilizer, sow seed, mulch,
apply nitrogen, water, maintain and undertake all reasonable steps taken in the
industry to provide a viable grass coverage that stabilizes the ground surface
against erosion;
         (b)   Keep property free of brush and weeds, dead and dying trees and
other growth which are inimical to the preservation of public health, safety or
general welfare of the public or which may constitute a fire hazard;
         (c)   Prune hedges, trees and other foliage along property lines so
that they do not impinge on neighboring properties, rights-of-way, or overhang
or obstruct sidewalks;
         (d)   Immediately remove all construction equipment, vehicles or
construction materials from the property; and/or
         (e)   Fill holes, depressions and voids created or exposed by clearing
or excavation operations with soil.
      (2)   Upon notice and verification by the City Manager that the
designated activity is subject to a period of inactivity, the City Manager
shall follow the enforcement procedures in §§
153.075 through
153.081 of the City Property Maintenance Code.
   (D)   Preemption. In the event of a conflict between the County Rules and
Regulations and this section, the provisions of the County Rules and
Regulations shall prevail. In the event of a conflict between the City Building
Code or city zoning code and this section, the applicable provisions of the
Building Code or the zoning code shall prevail.
   (E)   Reservation of rights. The city expressly reserves all rights and
remedies afforded to it under other provisions of the codified ordinances of
the city and other state and federal law.
   (F)   Severability. If any section, division, clause or phrase of this
section is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 158.28) (Ord. 08-11, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.075 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the City Manager or his or her
approved representative to enforce the provisions of this Property Maintenance
Code as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 158.30) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 153.076 COORDINATION OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the City Manager, it is necessary or desirable
to have inspections of any condition by more than one department, he or she
shall arrange for this to be done in such a manner that the owners or occupants
of buildings shall not be subjected to visits by numerous inspectors nor to
conflicting order.
(Prior Code, § 158.31) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 153.077 INSPECTIONS.
   Where there exists a reasonable cause to suspect that a condition exists
adverse to the safety, health and welfare of the people, the City Manager shall
make or cause to be made inspections by his or her authorized representative,
the Board of Health or the Fire Inspector to determine the conditions of
dwellings, multi-family dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming
units and premises in order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of the
public under the provisions of this code. All reports of inspections shall be
in writing and signed by the person making same or responsible for making same.
City Manager is hereby authorized to seek and obtain from a court of law an
administrative search warrant whenever it is deemed necessary to gain entrance
onto property or into a building for inspection of premises where there is
reasonable cause to believe a violation may exist.
(Prior Code, § 158.32) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993)
§ 153.078 UNSAFE, DANGEROUS AND UNSANITARY BUILDINGS.
   Whenever, upon inspection it shall appear that an unsafe, dangerous or
unsanitary condition exists in connection with any building or premises subject
to the provisions of this code or that any condition exists constituting a
violation of any provision of this code or any law relating to the same subject
matter, the City Manager shall give notice of the condition or violation to the
owner or agent in charge of the building, and shall order the same to be made
safe, secure or sanitary and to be placed in substantial compliance with the
provisions of this code, or to be taken down and removed. The City Manager or a
designated representative, in addition to any other citations, notices,
penalties or remedies provided by law or ordinance, is authorized to proceed in
a manner consistent with and pursuant to R.C. §§ 715.26 and 715.261 to maintain
the public health, safety and welfare and to recover costs as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 158.33) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.079 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided for, the service of any notice
required by the provisions of this code to be served on the owner, agent,
contractor, responsible person or other person responsible for the work or
violation in connection with any violation of the code or the construction,
reconstruction, repair, removal, vacation or wrecking of any building, object
or device on such property may be made in any of the following ways:
   (A)   By personal delivery to the party involved;
   (B)   By certified mail addressed to the party involved at his or her
residence or place of business; or
   (C)   Where the residence and place of business of the party is unknown and
cannot be ascertained with reasonable diligence or where, for any other reason,
personal service or service by mail cannot be made, the notice shall be posted
in a conspicuous place on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 158.34) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-
2019; Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 153.080 WRITTEN ORDER OF VACATION.
   (A)   Every order of vacation shall be in writing, and shall be served upon
the owner, agent or tenant stating the reasons for the order of vacation and
directing that the building, if it is occupied, be vacated by a specific time.
The City Manager shall place a notice of vacation in a conspicuous place on the
building. After the posting of the notice or order of vacation, it shall be
unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of the premises or any portion
thereof until the provisions of law and the orders issued by the City Manager
are complied with.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any lawful order of the City Manager within the
time specified in the order of notice shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable
as provided for in §
153.999.
(Prior Code, § 158.35) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CODE REGULATIONS.
   If, after service of any lawful order from the City Manager, the owner,
agent, contractor or other person responsible for the work or violation refuses
to comply with the order or does not comply within the period stated in the
order of notice, such failure to comply shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable as provided for in §
153.999 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 158.36) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see §
153.999
SHRUBBERY; STANDING WATER
§ 153.095 DEFINITIONS; KEEPING DOWN WEEDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter and any penalty provisions in
connection herewith, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FARM CROP. Shall include any field crops, tobacco, fruits and vegetables.
      FRONT YARD. Any section of land between a dwelling or other building and
the roadway upon which such dwelling or building is situated.
      NATIVE PLANTS. Plants that have evolved over thousands of years within
the particular region of the City of Madeira and southeast Ohio, naturally
adapting to the geography, hydrology and climate of that region. The approved
native plant list can be found in §
153.099.
      NOXIOUS. Harmful or offensive.
      RANK. Excessive in growth; exceeding eight inches in height.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any person owning or having charge of land within the
city, including, but not limited to, the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having
charge of the land involved. If the land involved is owned or controlled by a
limited liability company, limited liability partnership or corporation, then
the RESPONSIBLE PERSON may also include the controlling members, partners or
shareholders of such entity.
      TURF GRASS. Grass commonly used in regularly-cut lawns or play areas,
whether dead or alive, except as provided in §
153.097.
   (B)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city shall keep
such land free and clear from all rank or noxious weeds, grasses and
vegetation, except trees, shrubs, garden variety flowers, native plants and
farm crops, by cutting or other effective legal means of control.
   (C)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city shall keep
such land free from all weeds, grasses and vegetation, except trees, shrubs,
garden variety flowers, native plants and farm crops, by cutting or other
effective legal means of control whenever such weeds, grasses or vegetation are
pollinating or are about to spread or mature seeds, and at any other time as is
necessary to keep the growth of such weeds under eight inches in height.
   (D)   If the owner or other responsible person fails to cut the weeds,
grasses and vegetation before they exceed eight inches in height, then such
owner or responsible person shall have the duty and obligation to remove all or
substantially all clippings and waste resulting from the cutting of such weeds,
grasses and vegetation.
   (E)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city shall not
plant, maintain or cultivate farm crops in the front yard of such property.
   (F)   Shrubbery or other vegetation shall not be permitted to grow in a
manner that is a danger to the occupants of a dwelling or other building or to
the public health, safety and welfare, or in a manner that creates, extends or
intensifies blighting or deteriorating conditions. Such manner shall include
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Shrubbery or vegetation that is overgrown to the point that it
impedes the delivery of governmental services, such as police, fire and rescue
services;
      (2)   Shrubbery or vegetation that is overgrown to the point that it
infringes on any neighboring property owner’s right of quiet enjoyment of his
or her property; or
      (3)   Shrubbery or vegetation that has grown in a manner such that it has
infiltrated the siding or other building materials of a dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 158.40) (Ord. 08-20, passed 4-28-2008; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-
2019; Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.096 DEFINITIONS; REMOVING STANDING WATER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN-MADE AREA. Any area of land which was altered or depressed by any
means other than natural means.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any person owning or having charge of land within the
city, including, but not limited to, the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having
charge of the land involved.
      STANDING WATER. Water that is not flowing; stagnant.
   (B)   (1)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the city shall
keep such land free and clear from all excessive standing water or any human-
made areas of standing water by any effective legal means.
      (2)   If the owner or other responsible person fails to comply with this
section, then the owner or other responsible person shall have the duty and
obligation to remove all such standing water. No owner or other responsible
person is permitted to divert such standing water onto the property of another.
   (C)   Water shall not be permitted to stand in a manner that is dangerous to
the occupants of a dwelling or other building or to the public health, safety
and welfare, or in a manner that creates, extends or intensifies blighting or
deterioration conditions. Such manner shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Water that has collected to the point that it impedes the delivery
of governmental services, such as police, fire and rescue services;
      (2)   Water that has collected to the point that it infringes on any
neighboring property owner’s right of quiet enjoyment of his or her property;
      (3)   Water that has collected in such a manner that it has infiltrated
the building materials of a dwelling;
      (4)   Water that has collected that attracts, or creates a risk of
attracting, insects, including, but not limited to, mosquitoes; or
      (5)   Water that has collected that creates an environment conducive to
the development of health risks, including, but not limited to, mold, mildew
and bacteria.
(Prior Code, § 158.41) (Ord. 08-20, passed 4-28-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.097 DEFINITIONS; MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPING AREA. Designed and cultivated plant
communities that are self-sustaining with minimal resort to artificial methods
of plant care and that serve at least one of the following purposes:
         (a)   The attraction and aid of wildlife;
         (b)   The offset and control of a potential or existing soil loss
program;
         (c)   The enrichment or stabilization of soil fertility;
         (d)   Pest control;
         (e)   Governmental programs, including, without limitation, stormwater
control;
         (f)   Educational studies; and
         (g)   Food production.
   (B)   The height restrictions provided in §
153.095 shall not apply to natural plants on privately owned, occupied
residential property and properties contiguous to the privately owned, occupied
residential property provided that such contiguous properties are owned by the
same individual, when such natural plants are part of a managed natural
landscape area.
   (C)   Managed natural landscaped areas shall be set back a minimum of three
feet from all property lines, roads, alleys and/or driveways unless the
property is abutted by a fence or similar barrier separating it from adjoining
residential properties, then the natural landscaping may be planted up to the
property line (inside the sidewalk). With the exception of trees, all
vegetation in the right-of-way strip between the sidewalk and street must be
kept at a height of less than ten inches.
   (D)   Managed natural landscaped areas shall not be permitted to overhang or
encroach onto any public or private properties, or public sidewalks, streets or
alleys adjacent to the lot, tract or parcel on which they are planted.
   (E)   Managed natural landscaped areas shall be permitted to be up to 25% of
the area of the front yard and up to 50% of the area of the rear yard.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, the front and rear yard of a property
shall be determined by the halfway point of the subject lot; it will not follow
the zoning code definition of front and rear yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dc0b49be49fd99543cb3080bf72074cea04ce7da/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4330.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 158.42) (Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021; Ord. 22-08, passed 8-22-
2022)
§ 153.098 DEFINITIONS; ABANDONED PROPERTY; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED PROPERTY. Property that is not being maintained consistent with
the requirements of this
Chapter 153 and that the property owner or person in control has failed to
bring into compliance with this
Chapter 153 within seven days of receiving a notice of violation and civil
fine.
      ABATEMENT. The removal of any conditions in accordance with this section
that are the subject of a notice of violation.
   (B)   Due to the recurring nature of the violations in §
153.095, if the person, responsible person or entity that owns or controls any
property subject to a notice violation and fine fails to bring the subject
property into compliance with §
153.095 within five days after receiving a notice violation and fine, the
subject property shall be identified as an abandoned property as defined
herein.
   (C)   If subsequent violations occur at an abandoned property:
      (1)   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall place the
property on a list of abandoned properties that will be routinely inspected,
pursuant to guidelines established by the City Manager or City Manager’s
designee;
      (2)   If the property is subsequently found to be in violation of §
153.095, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee immediately shall
cause any weeds and/or turf grasses that exceed the height restrictions
specified in §
153.095 to be cut, as set forth in §
153.095; and
      (3)   Inspection and abatement of the abandoned property shall continue
as long as the condition persists, with a §
92.47 notice violation sent each time, and may continue into the following
calendar years.
   (D)   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall report all
expenses involved in the cutting of such weeds and turf grass, including the
cost of service of notice, any administrative costs and inspection costs, to
Council.
   (E)   The obligation of any mortgagee or person in control as defined in
Chapter 152 to comply with all of the obligations of the applicable Building
Code regulations is not modified by this section.
(Prior Code, § 158.43) (Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 153.099 NATIVE PLANT LIST.
 Scientific Name Common Name
    Scientific Name                     Common Name
A   Achillea millefolium                Yarrow
B   Allium cemuum                       Nodding Wild Onion
C   Andropogan gerardii                 Big Blue Stem
D   Anemone virginiana                  Tall Thimbleweed
E   Asclepias incarnata                 Swamp Milkweed
F   Asclepias tuberosa                  Butterflyweed
G   Asclepias Tuberosa                  Butterfly Milkweed
H   Aster laevis                        Smooth Aster
J   Baptisia Australis or Baptisia Alba Blue or White Wild Indigo
K   Bidens polylepis                    Bur Marigold
L   Cassia fascicuiata                  Partridge Pea
M   Conoclinium coelestinum             Blue Mistflower
N   Coreopsis grandiflora               Large Flower Coreopsis/Tickseed
O   Coreopsis lanceolata                Lanceleaf Coreopsis/Tickseed
P   Delphinium exaltatum                Tall Larkspur
Q   Echinacea purpurea                  Purple Coneflower
R   Eryngium yuccifolium                Rattlesnake Master
S   Eupatorium purpureum                Purple Joe-pye Weed
T   Euphorbia corallata                 Flowering Spurge
U   Filipendula rubra                   Queen-of-the Prairie
V   Geranium maculaturn                 Wild Geranium
W   Helenium autumnale                  Common Sneezeweed
X   Heloppsis helianthoides             Oxeye
Y   Heuchera richardsonii               Alum Root
Z   Impatiens capensis                  Jewelweed
AA  Iris virginiana                     Blue Flag Iris
BB  Liatris scariosa                    Blazing Star
CC  Liatris spicata                     Dence Blazing Star
DD  Lobelia cardinalis                  Cardinal Flower
EE  Lobelia siphilitica                 Great Lobela
FF  Mertensia virginica                 Mertensia
GG  Mitella diphylla                    Miterwort
HH  Monarda fistulosa                   Bergamot
II  Panicum viratum                     Switch Grass
JJ  Pentstemon digitalis                Foxglove Beardtounge
KK  Phacelia purshii                    Miami Mist
LL  Phlox paniculata                    Garden Phlox
MM  Physostegia viriniana               False Dragonhead
NN  Pycnanthemum virginiana             Virginia Mountain Mint
OO  Ratibida pinnata                    Greyheaded Coneflower
PP  Rudbeckia fuIgida                   Orange Coneflower
QQ  Rudbeckia hirta                     Blackeyed Susan
RR  Silene regia                        Royal Catchfly
SS  Silphium terebinthin                Prairie Dock
TT  Silphium trifolium                  Whorled Rosinweed
UU  Sisyrinmium atlanticum              Blue-eyed Grass
VV  Solidago rigida                     Stiff Goldenrod
WW  Sorghastrum nutans                  Indian Grass
XX  Spartina pectinata                  Prairie Cordgrass
YY  Sporobolis heterolepis              Prairie Dropseed
ZZ  Thalictrum polygamum                Meadow-rue
AAA Tradescantia virginana              Spiderwort
BBB Veronia altissima                   Ironweed
 
(Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, responsible person, or entity that owns or controls any
property area or structure that is served with a notice after violating or
assisting in the violation of any regulation, provision or amendment of this
Property Maintenance Code, or fails to obey any lawful order of the City
Manager issued in pursuance thereof, shall be in violation of the Property
Maintenance Code and fined not more than $150.
   (B)   Any person, responsible person, or entity who fails to comply with the
height restrictions specified in §
153.095 shall be in violation of the Property Maintenance Code upon receipt of
notice under §
153.079.
      (1)   Any person, responsible person or entity that owns or controls any
property area or structure served with a notice under §
153.095 shall have five days from service of the notice to remediate the
violation(s) identified and must maintain compliance with this Property
Maintenance Code regarding the noticed violation(s) on the subject property.
      (2)   Any person, responsible person or entity that owns or controls any
property area or structure that fails to remediate the violation(s) identified
by the notice within five days of being served with the notice shall be fined
not less than $150 per offense.
         (a)   Once a property becomes an abandoned property as defined in §
153.098, the owner or person in control of that property shall keep it free
from weeds and turf grasses over eight inches in height by cutting and then
removing said cut weeds and turf grasses from such lot or lands immediately.
         (b)   If subsequent violations occur at an abandoned property, in
addition to imposition of civil fines, the city will abate all subsequent
violations pursuant to §
153.098.
   (C)   Any civil fines collected under this chapter shall be deposited into
the Private Lot Abatement Fund to support §
153.098 abatement activities and enforcement of this
Chapter 153.
(Prior Code, § 158.99) (Ord. 93-27, passed 6-21-1993; Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-
2004; Ord. 19-06, passed 11-25-2019; Ord. 21-04, passed 8-9-2021)
CHAPTER 154: SIGNS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Application and objectives
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Signs exempt from this chapter
   
154.05   Permits required
   
154.06   Illuminated signs; electrical inspection
   
154.07   Inspection
   
154.08   Unsafe and unlawful signs
   
154.09   Signs allowed in certain districts
   
154.10   Number of on-premises advertising signs
   
154.11   Face of sign shall be smooth
   
154.12   Location of sign; materials
   
154.13   Signs not permitted in any district
   
154.14   Materials required
   
154.15   Illumination
   
154.16   Permanent freestanding signs; height and area limitations
   
154.17   Commercial corridor signs
   
154.18   Wall and window signs; limitation of placement and area
   
154.19   Multiple sign copy area
   
154.20   Temporary signs
   
154.21   Nonconforming existing signs
   
154.22   Variances
   
154.23   Permit application procedure
   
154.24   Removal of signs by City Manager
   
154.25   Maintenance
   
154.26   Nuisance
   
154.27   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and establish the orderly
development of signs as a means of communication, including commercial,
informational and political messages while protecting the public health, safety
and welfare of the city. To that end, this chapter is intended to accomplish
the following specific objectives:
   (A)   To ensure that signs are installed, maintained and regulated so as not
to endanger pedestrian safety and auto traffic safety, or cause property
damages or bodily injury;
   (B)   To minimize or eliminate sign clutter, distractions and obstructions-
of-view that contribute to pedestrian traffic and auto traffic hazards;
   (C)   To enhance and protect the visual attractiveness of the city and help
to preserve property values and attract sources of economic development and
growth;
   (D)   To allow for adequate and effective signs for business identification
and advertising communication while limiting the excessive number, height and
size of signs for the benefit of private enterprise and the community-at-large;
   (E)   To coordinate the type, placement and scale of signs in an equitable
manner;
   (F)   To protect and promote the integrity and character of specific areas
of the city and compatibility with the overall residential nature of the city;
   (G)   To promote equal treatment under the law through accurate record
keeping, reasonable permit processing, reasonable permit fees and consistent
enforcement; and
   (H)   To allow a reasonable means for persons to exercise their right of
freedom of speech while protecting the community from visual blight associated
with uncontrolled proliferation of temporary signs.
(Prior Code, § 159.01) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION AND OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter shall be considered a companion code to those portions of the
Ohio Building Code for commercial construction and the Residential Code of Ohio
for residential construction and such rules and regulations as may otherwise be
deemed applicable to these matters. The general objectives of this chapter are
as follows:
   (A)   To establish a permit system to control the types of signs in
commercial and industrial zones and, to a more limited degree, the variety of
signs in residential zones;
   (B)   To allow certain small temporary or directional signs unique to
residential or noncommercial uses to be erected with the minimum of delay, cost
and administrative entanglements for limited periods of time or for limited
noncommercial purposes;
   (C)   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this chapter;
   (D)   To establish reasonable fees for the permit process which are roughly
commensurate with the administrative review necessary;
   (E)   To provide procedures for considering unusual circumstances and
hardships through appeals and variance applications;
   (F)   To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; and
   (G)   To establish sign regulations for the varying zoning districts within
the city which reasonably recognize the distinction between commercial and
residential districts.
(Prior Code, § 159.02) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases are explained as follows with the intention
that they be interpreted in this chapter to have the meanings described to them
in this section. The words and phrases may be cumulative and are not intended
to be exclusive. For example, even though a ground sign and an illuminated sign
are separately defined, both definitions may apply to the same sign. If the
definition of any word or phrase is unclear, or the word or phrase is used
elsewhere in the chapter in a context which makes its intended use unclear,
such word or phrase shall be construed in the manner that best fulfills the
purposes and objectives set forth in §§
154.01 and
154.02.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting, either
natural or artificial, to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
   AREA OF BUILDING WALL. The length times the height of a wall. It shall
include the area of any windows located within the wall. The roof of a building
shall not be included as part of the height of the wall.
   AREA OF SIGN. This is the area within a polygon formed by the edges of the
frame of a sign or the surface of the sign capable of displaying a message or
the background of a message, whichever is greatest. The AREA OF A SIGN will
generally not include the structural supports for freestanding signs unless
those supports display all or a part of a message thereon.
   BACKGROUND. The portion of the facing of a sign which is free of letters,
words, logos, symbols and other representations that actively convey the
message of the sign.
   BANNER. Any type of temporary sign made of cloth or other light fabric
designed and intended to be displayed without a rigid frame. Generally, the
face of the sign is made of fabric or plastic and is anchored and secured by
cord, rope or similar lines.
   BEACON. A type of attraction device which may or may not be part of a larger
display. This device is a stationary or revolving light which flashes or
projects illumination, single color or multi-colored, in any manner which is
intended to attract or divert attention. While this definition includes
lighting devices which are required or necessary under safety regulations
prescribed by governmental agencies and flashing lights on emergency vehicles,
those used for public safety are not intended to be regulated by this chapter.
   BUILDING MARKER. Corner stones and tablets which are used as a memorial or
to show the name of a building or the date of the erection of the building,
where such cornerstones or tablet is built into the wall of a building and is
constructed of bronze, brass, marble or stone or other incombustible material.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building such as, but not
limited to, a projecting sign, a wall sign, an awning sign, a roof sign or a
window sign. This is intended to be contrasted with the other general category
of signs, which is the freestanding sign.
   BULLETIN BOARD. See INSTITUTIONAL BULLETIN BOARD.
   BUSINESS CENTER. Any lot or adjoining lots under single ownership on which
there is located more than one separately owned and operated business (other
than home occupations) each of which business occupies separate floor space
from other businesses located on the lot or lots and is located in a business
zoning district B-1, B-2 or B-3).
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy or
other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window or outdoors area.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A device which is designed so that all or a portion of
a message, information, design or illustration may be changed or rearranged
without replacing the background or the frame of the sign. Examples of this
type of sign include, but are not limited to, signs at service stations which
display the price of gas or other commodities, boards which may be written or
drawn upon and then wiped clear for a new message, devices by which letters or
other symbols or pictures may be affixed either by magnetic means, by hooks,
grooves or snaps or any similar mechanical or electronic arrangement such as
bulletin boards and movie marquees.
   COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR SIGN. A freestanding sign designed to primarily display
its commercial message to vehicular traffic traveling on a state or federal
roadway with a minimum of four lanes. In addition, such sign shall be erected
in an area adjacent to such a roadway and be located on property located in the
Business Two (B-2) or Business Three (B-3) District and which has frontage
along such roadway.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any display of words, logos, symbols, pictures or
combination thereof which is capable and which is intended to call attention to
a business, commodity, service or entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. Any sign which displays a commercial message.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. See INFORMATIONAL SIGN.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix and also
includes the painting of wall signs.
   ESTATE SALE SIGN. See GARAGE SALE SIGN.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign in which artificial or reflected light is
not maintained stationary and constant intensity and color at all times when in
use.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign designed to be self-supporting, and independent
for support from buildings and other structures. A sign which is primarily
self-supporting but is incidentally attached to a building or other structure
for additional support or for other reasons shall generally be considered to be
a FREESTANDING SIGN. This type of sign may also be referred to as a GROUND SIGN
or POLE SIGN.
   GARAGE SALE SIGN. A sign displaying a message that personal household
possessions are for sale. The only message on such a sign shall be either the
words “garage sale”, “yard sale”, “estate sale” or “rummage sale”, the hours of
such sale and the address or direction to such sale.
   GROUND SIGN. See FREESTANDING SIGN.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. See INFORMATIONAL SIGN.
   INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign which provides only information regarding
location, direction (such as “entrance” or “exit”) and which bears no
commercial message. Examples of INFORMATIONAL SIGNS include, but are not
limited to, signs with the following messages: “no parking”, “entrance”,
“loading only”, “telephone”, street address, “no trespassing”, office hours,
“open”, “full service”, “self service” and similar directives.
   INSTITUTIONAL BULLETIN BOARDS. A changeable copy sign which displays only
messages relating to public or charitable events such as meetings, bazaars,
fund raising events and recognition of achievement in other than commercial
ventures.
   MAINTENANCE (MAINTAIN). The cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of
defective parts of a sign in a manner that does not alter the original copy,
original colors, design or structure of the sign. See also REPAIRS.
   NAMEPLATE. A sign with the name, address and/or profession of a person
occupying the lot or part of a building thereon.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. One of the following:
      (1)   A sign which was erected legally but which does not comply with the
subsequently enacted sign restrictions or regulations; or
      (2)   A sign which does not conform to the explicit regulations of the
sign code but for which a variance or other authorized approval has been
granted, any such variance (by the Board of Zoning Appeals) or authorized
approval (by the City Manager) shall be noted on the permit for such a sign.
   PERSONAL MESSAGE SIGN. A sign with a message incidental to residential use
of property such as birth announcements (“It’s a Girl”, “Welcome Home”and the
like) and similar messages of a noncommercial nature.
   POLE SIGN. See FREESTANDING SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed in a manner that emphasizes its portability
and ease of relocation. A primary feature of such signs is that the supporting
structure need not be attached to a building or affixed to the ground. Such
signs include portable swinger signs, “A” frame signs, sandwich board signs,
portable signs on wheels, vehicles, platforms or other means of resting the
sign and supporting structure on the ground. PORTABLE SIGNS are distinguished
from temporary signs that are designed to be primarily anchored by cords (such
as banners) or by staking (typical political and real estate signs).
   PROJECT OR CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign which directs attention to the
promotion, development and construction of the property on which it is located
and which identifies the architects, engineers, contractors, developers and
other individuals or firms involved with the construction. The length of time
such sign is displayed shall be dependent upon the scope of the project
undertaken on such property.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, erected on the outside wall
of a building, which projects at an angle from the wall to which it is
attached.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the
premises on which the sign is displayed, or which indicates the sale of the
premises is pending or the property sold.
   REMOTE SIGNS OR BILLBOARDS. Signs or billboards displaying a commercial
message or advertising any services or commodities not available on the site on
which the sign is erected.
   REPAIRS. Routine and systematic work done to a sign to keep it in good
order, using similar materials, not involving changes in materials or design
which constitute rebuilding and reconstruction. See also MAINTENANCE.
   RUMMAGE SALE SIGN. See GARAGE SALE SIGN.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed, painted or maintained upon or over
the roof of any building, and having its principal support on the roof or walls
of the building.
   SETBACK FROM ADJACENT PROPERTY. The distance from the adjacent side or rear
property lines. Setback requirements vary as to the zoning district of the
adjacent property.
   SIGN(S). Any writing, word, number, pictorial, illustration, decoration,
emblem, symbol, trademark, flag, banner, pennant insignia, flashing light,
beacon or other device which is placed in a manner that the communication,
announcement, message, attraction, advertisement or promotion inherent to the
device is visible or appears to be intended to be visible to persons on
adjoining property or nearby public rights-of-way.
   STREET MAIL BOX. A mail receptacle containing only the identification of a
postal address and/or name of resident located at the street curb, conforming
to United States postal regulations.
   SUBDIVISION SIGN. A permanent sign containing only the subdivision name and
other information approved by the Planning Commission.
   TEMPORARY SIGN.
      (1)   A sign which has either or both of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The primary purpose of the sign will be completed by the
occurrence of an event which is likely to take place within a period of a few
days to a few months such as an election or sale of real estate; and/or
         (b)   The material of which the sign is made or the manner in which
the sign is affixed to the ground or a structure are of such nature as not to
be suitable for permanent display because exposure to the elements will
unreasonably deface the message, discolor or tear the material or loosen the
methods by which such a sign is anchored.
      (2)   Examples of TEMPORARY SIGNS include, but are not limited to,
political signs, “For Sale” signs, garage sale signs, sale signs and some
project signs.
   TENANT. Single business unit exclusively occupying and operating in a
separately secured building or portion thereof.
   VEHICULAR PORTABLE SIGN. A sign mounted or painted on a vehicle or trailer,
and includes vehicles parked strategically with sign messages in order to
advertise a product or business. Flashing, blinking, revolving and visible
reflective spotlights are prohibited.
   WALL SIGN. A sign integral with the exterior face of an exterior wall of a
building, or attached to and parallel with the wall and projecting not more
than 12 inches therefrom.
   YARD SALE SIGN. See GARAGE SALE SIGN.
(Prior Code, § 159.03) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.04 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The following signs and messages are exempt from the regulations of this
chapter:
   (A)   Temporary noncommercial speech signs, except as otherwise provided for
in §
154.20;
   (B)   Signs bearing no commercial message and installed by employees or
officials of a township, city, county, state or federal agency in the course of
their governmental duties;
   (C)   Other signs conforming with the “Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices” and bearing no commercial message;
   (D)   Reflectors and safety signs or devices used to mark driveways, towers
and potentially dangerous structures or situations; provided such signs and
devices do not display commercial messages;
   (E)   Signs required by a state or federal statute;
   (F)   Signs required by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (G)   Signs installed by public utilities in their rights-of-way or on their
facilities and bearing no commercial message other than such message necessary
to identify the use;
   (H)   Signs installed by a transit company with a franchise or other right
to operate in the county, where such signs are installed along its routes and
relate to schedules or other information about the transit route;
   (I)   Flags, emblems and insignias of national, state or local political
subdivisions;
   (J)   Commemorative plaques placed on a structure by recognized historical
agencies; such a sign shall bear no commercial message unless it meets all of
the standards for a sign bearing a commercial message at that location. Such
signs shall not exceed six square feet in area and shall not be illuminated;
   (K)   Signs that do not exceed eight square feet in sign area and six feet
in height that give notice of neighborhood crime watch programs being in
effect;
   (L)   Name and/or address descriptions mounted to the front wall of a
building or to a lamppost in the front yard not to exceed two square feet in
sign area (e.g., street numbers);
   (M)   Window signs; the window signs shall be so located as to allow clear
visibility into the building for the purposes of fire and police protection;
   (N)   Interior signs within a stadium, open-air theater, shopping center,
arena or other use of which signs can be viewed only by persons within such
stadium, open-air theater, shopping center, arena or other use;
   (O)   Directional ground-mounted monument signs, with no commercial message,
not-to-exceed two signs per driveway indicating entrance and exit locations
with a maximum permitted sign area of eight square feet and a maximum height of
four feet;
   (P)   Any work of art that does not display a commercial message provided
that the work of art meets all other applicable standards of this chapter;
   (Q)   Architectural features that are either part of the building or part of
a freestanding structure are not considered signs and are thus exempt from
these regulations. Architectural features include any construction attending
to, but not an integral part of the sign, and which may consist of landscape or
building or structural forms that enhance the site in general;
   (R)   Holiday decorations for religious or national holidays. Such
decorations may blink, flash or move. No such holiday decorations shall
interfere with traffic, present any hazard, or be detrimental to public health,
safety or morals;
   (S)   Routine maintenance of any sign, not involving structural changes to
the sign; and
   (T)   Changes of message, either manually or electronically, on a message
board or reader board, subject to limitations in this chapter.
(Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to build, erect, structurally or otherwise alter, or relocate within the
city any permanent or temporary sign or other advertising device, as defined in
this chapter, without first obtaining a building permit from the City Manager
and making payment of any required permit fee. All illuminated signs shall, in
addition, be subject to the provisions of the Electrical Code, and the permit
fees required thereunder. Permits shall be obtained in accordance with §
154.24.
(Prior Code, § 159.04) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 ILLUMINATED SIGNS; ELECTRICAL INSPECTION.
   The application for a permit for erection of a sign or other advertising
structure in which electrical wiring and connections are to be used shall be
submitted to the City Manager. The City Manager shall be responsible to see
that an examination is made of the plans and specifications respecting all
wiring and connections to determine if the same comply with the Electrical Code
of the city. He or she shall disapprove the application for permit if
noncompliance with such code is found.
(Prior Code, § 159.05) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024)
§ 154.07 INSPECTION.
   The City Manager may cause the inspection of, at such times as he or she
deems necessary, each sign or other advertising structure regulated by this
chapter for the purpose of ascertaining whether the same is properly erected,
maintained in good condition and in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.06) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024)
§ 154.08 UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   The City Manager may cause any sign or other advertising structure which is
an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without
notice. In such a case, a citation may be issued without notices and without
delay. No additional or different signs, temporary or permanent, shall be
erected on property on which a sign or advertising structure is in violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.07) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 SIGNS ALLOWED IN CERTAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following types of permanent signs shall be permitted in all
districts where the principal uses to which they are related are permitted.
Permits shall not be required for signs enumerated in this section.
   (B)   However, the City Manager may direct the removal or relocation of any
of the following signs if he or she determines them to be distracting, hinder
visibility or not serve the purpose intended pursuant to this section:
      (1)   House numbers and nameplates identifying the address and resident
of a parcel of land and not exceeding one square foot in area;
      (2)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
noncombustible material and not exceeding two square feet in area;
      (3)   Traffic or other municipal, governmental and public utility signs
such as the following: legal notices, railroad crossings, danger or other
emergency signs;
      (4)   No more than two identification signs may be permitted at each
vehicle entrance to a completed residential development and placed only on
private property by permission of the owner of that property. Such
identification signs must, however, have been approved by Planning Commission
as part of its subdivision approval. Each sign shall have a surface area not to
exceed 20 square feet;
      (5)   Signs painted on or otherwise attached to motor vehicles which are
legally licensed and primarily used on the highways for commercial or business
purposes such as transportation of persons, goods or equipment; provided that
no such vehicle displaying a sign may be parked within the required front
setback of any lot or on any public right-of-way for the primary purpose of
advertising any service, product or facility;
      (6)   Vending machines and vending structures shall be allowed signs only
attached to the machine or structure, and advertise only the contents in the
vending machine. Such signs must be painted on or otherwise permanently affixed
to the surface of the vending machine, and may not project therefrom;
      (7)   Automobile full-service stations and automobile fuel-only stations
may display the following special signs which are deemed customary and
necessary to their respective businesses:
         (a)   Customary lettering or other insignia on a fuel pump consisting
of the brand of fuel sold, lead warning sign and other signs required by law
and not exceeding a total of three square feet on each pump;
         (b)   A single non-illuminated double-faced sign per fuel pump island,
each of which shall not exceed four square feet in area, may be placed on a
fuel pump island; such sign may extend a maximum of two feet above pumps; and
         (c)   Directional signs indicating which pump islands are “full
service” and which are “self serve”.
      (8)   Private traffic-control signs such as “in”, “out”, “drive-in
window”, “entrance”, “exit” and the like may be installed without a permit as
long as the sign contains no advertising for the business or use. No such sign
shall exceed one square foot in area. No such sign shall hinder the visibility
of motorists or pedestrians; and
      (9)   Institutional bulletin boards located on the premises to which the
sign pertains.
Each sign is subject to the appropriate area, height and placement
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 159.08) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 NUMBER OF ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   This section regulates the number of commercial signs which may be
displayed by businesses located only in a business or manufacturing zoning
district. The intent is to allow separate businesses located on a single lot or
adjoining lots under single ownership to announce their location to vehicular
traffic on adjacent rights-of-way, but to minimize the visual clutter that
occurs when numerous signs are placed or freestanding signs or multiple
freestanding signs and wall signs are placed on close proximity. This creates
confusion and distraction and promotes competition to display the most garish
and largest sign.
   (B)   In addition, the speed limits, traffic density, number of lanes of
travel, setback of buildings from the adjacent roadways and number of
businesses located on a single lot or promoted under a single marketing
strategy (such as a large shopping mall) have been considered as factors in
establishing the following regulations.
      (1)   Generally, one freestanding sign shall be permitted per lot or
business center. If a lot or business center has frontage and vehicular access
on more than one street (corner lot or through lot), one additional
freestanding sign (that is, secondary freestanding sign) may be located near
the additional access point; provided, however, that the additional
freestanding sign shall be restricted in height and area commensurate with
available frontage, traffic density, lanes of vehicular travel on roadway,
proximity of businesses and residential areas and parking to that access point,
and the distance separating the points of access. Such restrictions on the
secondary freestanding sign shall be determined by the ARO based upon the
foregoing factors.
      (2)   Where more than one business is on a lot or business center,
multiple sign facings advertising the various businesses may be permitted with
the approval of the City Manager and ARO provided all such signs are displayed
on a single supporting structure. If a secondary freestanding sign is permitted
in accordance with division (B)(1) above, multiple sign facings may be
displayed on each freestanding sign, subject to the total area limitations.
      (3)   In addition to a freestanding sign (division (B)(1) above) or signs
(division (B)(2) above), one wall sign identifying business or product
furnished within the building may be permitted for each business located in a
separate building or separate area of a building. Such wall signs must be
located on the portion of the building actually occupied by such business and
no sign shall exceed six square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 159.09) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 FACE OF SIGN SHALL BE SMOOTH.
   All signs or other advertising structures which are constructed on street
lines, or within five feet thereof, shall have a smooth surface and no nails,
tacks or wires shall be permitted to protrude therefrom. However, raised
letters, numbers or trim are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 159.10) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.12 LOCATION OF SIGN; MATERIALS.
   (A)   Location. It shall be unlawful for any sign to be located on, above or
extend over public property or the public right- of-way, except for traffic
signs or other public service signs approved by the City Manager.
   (B)   Materials. Except for certain temporary signs as permitted herein, all
signs shall be made of durable material that is structurally sound and is
complimentary to the building of which it becomes a part. The supports shall
appear to be an architectural and integral part of the building where a sign is
attached or mounted to a building. If the sign or sign materials have
deteriorated to waste, debris or litter, the sign and its materials shall be
disposed of immediately. The structural design and construction materials of
all signs shall be reviewed by the City Manager or ARO prior to issuance of a
building permit. Only signs determined to be structurally safe and in
conformance with this chapter shall be issued a permit by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 159.11) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.13 SIGNS NOT PERMITTED IN ANY DISTRICT.
   The following signs shall not be permitted, erected or maintained in any
district:
   (A)   Signs in the right-of way unless specifically permitted in this
chapter (see also §
154.04);
   (B)   Pennants, banners (except under §
154.20), streamers and similar type devices intended to grab the attention of
drivers or pedestrians;
   (C)   Roof signs and signs that extend above or beyond the building façade,
except as otherwise specifically permitted in this chapter;
   (D)   Flags intended for advertising or commercial purposes;
   (E)   Signs emitting sounds;
   (F)   All portable advertising signs (mobile signs on wheels and the like)
and signs mounted, attached, painted and the like on trailers, boats or motor
vehicles except those on licensed commercial delivery and service vehicles;
   (G)   Beacons and searchlights, except for emergency purposes;
   (H)   Off-premise signs unless permitted as an outdoor advertising sign in
accordance with this section;
   (I)   Outdoor advertising signs (billboard);
   (J)   Flashing, moving, blinking, racer type, intermittent, rotating, moving
or revolving signs, whirligig devices, inflatable signs and tethered balloons,
ribbons, spinners, exposed light bulbs, and strings of lights not permanently
mounted to a rigid background, and other similar types of attention-getting
devices;
   (K)   Merchandise, equipment, products, vehicles or other items not
themselves for sale and placed for attention getting, identification or
advertising purposes; and
   (L)   Permanent signs erected or attached to accessory structures.
(Prior Code, § 159.12) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 96-24, passed 5-29-
1996; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-2017; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024) Penalty, see
§
154.99
§ 154.14 MATERIALS REQUIRED.
   Except for certain temporary signs as permitted herein, all signs shall be
made of durable material and be structurally sound. The supporting members
shall be free of exposed unsightly bracing, guy wires, cables and the like. The
supports shall appear to be an architectural and integral part of the building
where a sign is attached or mounted to a building. The structural design and
construction materials of all signs shall be reviewed by the City Manager prior
to issuance of a building permit. Only signs determined to be structurally safe
and in conformance with this chapter shall be issued a permit by the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 159.13) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.15 ILLUMINATION.
   No sign shall be illuminated, except in accordance with the following
restrictions.
   (A)   No sign shall contain any moving, flashing or animated lights, except
such portions of a sign as consist solely of indicators of time, day, date and
temperature in Fahrenheit and/or Celsius.
   (B)   Lighting external to the sign shall consist of not more than two
colors, including white. No external red or green lights shall be used if, in
the opinion of the City Manager, such colors would create a driving hazard. No
lighting shall be of such brightness or direction so as to cause glare that may
be hazardous to pedestrians or auto drivers.
   (C)   Illumination shall be so arranged as to reflect light away from
residential premises and in such a manner so as not to cast glare.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply not only to exterior signs,
but also the interior signs which are designed or placed to show through
windows or doors of buildings.
(Prior Code, § 159.14) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 PERMANENT FREESTANDING SIGNS; HEIGHT AND AREA LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Height. Except for commercial corridor signs, it shall be unlawful to
erect any permanent freestanding sign whose total height is greater than eight
feet above the level of the street upon which the sign displays its message or
above the adjoining ground level, if such ground level is above the street
level. Copy area shall not exceed 50% of background area.
   (B)   Space between sign and ground. Except for commercial corridor signs,
permanent freestanding signs mounted near the ground shall have an open space
of not less than two feet between the base line of said sign and ground level.
This open space may be filled with a platform, plantings or decorative lattice
work which does not close off more than one-half of any square foot of such
open spaces. No ground sign shall be nearer than two feet to any other sign,
building or structure.
   (C)   Setback line. No permanent freestanding sign shall have any portion
nearer the street than the building or setback line established by law.
   (D)   Premises to be kept free of weeds, and the like. All freestanding
signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be maintained by the owner or
permittee thereof in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, and free and
clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
   (E)   Area. The total area of one side of any freestanding sign shall not
exceed 50 square feet. This includes the total of all sign facings of different
businesses displayed on one side of a single freestanding sign.
(Prior Code, § 159.15) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.17 COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR SIGNS.
   (A)   As used within this chapter a COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR SIGN means a
freestanding sign designed to primarily display its commercial message to
vehicular traffic traveling on a state or federal roadway with a minimum of
four lanes. In addition, such sign shall be erected in an area adjacent to such
a roadway and be located on property located in a Business Two B-2 or Business
Three B-3 District and which has frontage along such roadway.
   (B)   All freestanding signs which are located or intended to be located in
a manner and location defined in division (A) above shall be regulated as
follows.
      (1)   Its total height shall not exceed 20 feet above the level of street
upon which it intends to display its message, or above the ground on which it
is located if such ground is higher than the street level. Copy area shall not
exceed 50% of background area.
      (2)   No portion of the sign facing shall be less than seven feet above
ground level or street level, whichever requires the greater clearance from the
ground.
      (3)   No portion of this freestanding sign shall be closer than five feet
to the right-of-way.
      (4)   The premises in the vicinity of any such sign must be maintained in
a clean, sanitary and orderly manner and shall be kept clear of all noxious
substances, rubbish and weeds.
      (5)   One sign facing may be displayed on each side of a sign for each
business located on the premises, but in no event may the total area of one
side of sign or multiple signs be greater than 150 square feet.
   (C)   If a lot or business center has frontage and vehicle access on a
corner lot or through lot, and one roadway requires the erection of a
commercial corridor sign and the secondary roadway does not, a secondary
freestanding sign may be erected in accordance with the provisions of §
154.09(A).
(Prior Code, § 159.16) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.18 WALL AND WINDOW SIGNS; LIMITATION OF PLACEMENT AND AREA.
   (A)   Subject to the other provisions and limitations of this chapter, wall
and window signs or any combination thereof may be displayed in any commercial,
retail or industrial district up to a total area which does not exceed 25% of
the area of a building wall. This area limitation shall apply to both temporary
and permanent signs, whether displayed on a wall or a window, or combinations
thereof. However, placards, paintings and other non-illuminated sign may be
affixed on the interior of a window, without obtaining a permit, provided that
the total area of all signs displayed on the wall and window do not exceed 25%
of the wall area and no sign is in violation of §
154.12.
   (B)   No wall sign shall cover wholly or partially any wall opening, nor
project beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is attached. The copy
area of a wall sign without a background area (individual letters or numerals)
shall not exceed 10% of the area of the building wall. Maximum height of a wall
sign shall not exceed 12 feet above ground level and wall signs shall not
exceed one square foot of area for each lineal foot of building frontage on
that street or 60 square feet of area whichever is less.
   (C)   No wall sign shall be permitted except on the front of the building
and on any other side or rear of the building where secondary entrance is
provided, and to facilitate identification for secondary entrance. Before
erection of a wall sign, the approval of the ARO is required.
(Prior Code, § 159.17) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 96-24, passed 5-29-
1996; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.19 MULTIPLE SIGN COPY AREA.
   Multiple sign copy area shall not exceed 60% of the background area.
(Prior Code, § 159.18) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.20 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   General definitions related to temporary signs. For the purpose of
this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TEMPORARY SIGNS. Defined by these regulations and may include, but are
not limited to, political signs, real estate signs and special event signs.
      TEMPORARY SIGNS WITH A COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Include, but are not limited
to, real estate signs, signs that reference the sale of items or other
business-related activities or signs that include text classified as a
commercial message.
      TEMPORARY SIGNS THAT DO NOT CONTAIN A COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Include, but
are not limited to, political signs and any other sign with text that is not
classified as a commercial message.
   (B)   Standards that apply to all temporary signs.
      (1)   No temporary sign shall be mounted, attached, affixed, installed or
otherwise secured by any permanent means to any building, permanent sign, other
structure or improvement, or to the ground upon which it is erected.
      (2)   No temporary sign shall be mounted, attached, affixed, installed or
otherwise secured so as to protrude above the roof of a structure.
      (3)   No temporary sign shall be illuminated by anything other than non-
reflected daylight, except by variance issued by the BZA.
      (4)   No temporary sign shall be located in a right-of-way.
   (C)   Temporary noncommercial speech signs.
      (1)   Temporary noncommercial speech signs shall not be posted in any
place or in any manner that is destructive to public property upon posting or
removal.
      (2)   Temporary noncommercial speech signs shall be set back a minimum of
ten feet from the street right-of-way line.
      (3)   The maximum height of temporary noncommercial speech signs shall be
eight feet.
      (4)   The maximum area of a temporary noncommercial speech sign shall be
35 square feet.
   (D)   Temporary signs for development/construction.
      (1)   One temporary, on-premise sign may be posted on the site where a
development project or subdivision is under construction.
      (2)   The sign may be posted 60 days prior to, and throughout the
duration of, construction.
      (3)   Such sign shall not exceed 64 square feet in area per side (two
sides maximum).
      (4)   The maximum height of the sign shall be ten feet.
      (5)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from the right-of-
way line.
      (6)   The applicant must submit a request to renew the applicable zoning
permit every six months.
   (E)   Temporary signs for special events.
      (1)   One temporary, on-premise sign may be used announcing special
events on-site and may be erected 30 days prior to the event and must be
removed one week after the event with the occurrence of no more than twice a
year or as approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   Such signs shall not exceed one square foot per lineal foot of
building frontage not to exceed 100 square feet in area.
      (3)   The maximum height of the sign shall be seven feet.
      (4)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the right-
of-way line.
   (F)   Temporary signs on properties for sale or lease.
      (1)   Temporary signs on properties for lease or sale in residential
districts. Up to two temporary signs that contain a commercial message may be
permitted on an individual lot (without a zoning permit). Such signs shall be
limited to six square feet or less in sign area and five feet in height.
      (2)   Temporary signs on properties for lease or sale in nonresidential
districts.
         (a)   Up to two temporary signs that contain a commercial message may
be permitted on an individual lot (without a zoning permit). Such signs shall
be limited to six square feet or less in sign area and five feet in height.
         (b)   In addition to the above two temporary signs, a larger temporary
sign is allowed in a nonresidential district provided it complies with the
following requirements:
            1.   The owner of the property where the sign will be located shall
apply for and receive a zoning permit for the sign;
            2.   There shall be a limit of one sign per lot and such sign shall
not exceed 35 square feet per side with a maximum of two sides;
            3.   The maximum height shall be seven feet; and
            4.   The applicant must submit a request to renew the applicable
zoning permit every six months.
(Prior Code, § 159.19) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 96-24, passed 5-29-
1996; Ord. 19-04, passed 9-23-2019; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024) Penalty, see
§
154.99
§ 154.21 NONCONFORMING EXISTING SIGNS.
   Every sign or other advertising structure lawfully in existence when this
chapter becomes a law, shall not be expanded, altered, replaced or moved unless
it is brought into compliance with the requirements of this chapter. This
section shall not prevent repairing or restoring to a safe condition any part
of the structural supports of any sign, or the maintenance operations performed
thereon. Any sign or any substantial part thereof now existing, and which for
any reason or purpose is taken down or removed, except for repair to an extent
less than one-half of its replacement value, shall not be re-erected,
reconstructed, rebuilt or relocated, unless it shall be made to comply with
this chapter. Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary,
all signs erected following the effective date of these regulations shall
comply with all the provisions of this chapter. All signs that are in existence
on the effective date of these regulations, that do not conform with the
standards of this chapter, shall be considered nonconforming uses and shall be
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Changes in words, symbols or messages shall not be made on
nonconforming signs unless the sign is specifically designed for periodic
change of message.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs shall not be structurally altered so as to change
the shape, size, type or design of the sign, nor shall any nonconforming sign
be relocated without complying with the standards of this chapter, except that
the Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a change that will result in a decrease
in the nonconformity of the sign.
   (C)   Nonconforming signs shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Minor repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs such as
repainting, electrical repairs and neon tubing repair shall be permitted.
However, no structural repairs or changes in the size or shape of the sign
shall be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (E)   If the legally nonconforming use which a sign represents is
discontinued for 24 continuous months or longer, any future sign shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this code. DISCONTINUED shall mean that the
use has ceased activities or operations.
(Prior Code, § 159.21) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority, by a majority
vote of the members appointed to hear appeals from the decisions of the City
Manager or ARO and to grant relief from those decisions.
   (B)   A sign not constructed or erected in conformity with this chapter may
be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals when the use of such proposed sign
will not be detrimental to public health, safety and general welfare or when a
substantial hardship or injustice will prevail in refusing to issue a permit
for use of such a proposed sign. The owner shall submit detailed drawings of
the proposed sign and its locations to the Board of Zoning Appeals for its
review prior to rendering a decision on the issuance of a building permit. The
Board of Zoning Appeals may request the Architectural Review Officer to
evaluate the drawings and other available material and report his or her
findings to the Board. Any variance should be in accordance with the general
intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.23) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.23 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of this permit procedure is to provide a mechanism
for informing persons about the regulation of signs, keeping the administrative
time and expense reasonably equivalent to type of sign proposed and providing a
method of establishing responsibility for maintaining and removing signs in a
timely manner.
   (B)   City Manager’s duty. The City Manager shall be responsible for the
development of all applications for sign permits which are consistent with the
requirements and purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Permanent signs. Applications for a permit required by this chapter
for a permanent sign shall set forth all information required of any building
permit. It may also include drawings of sign and supporting structure, proposed
location on plat, all dimensional measurements, calculations of total area and
copy area, and relative location to other signs. The application may require
information and/or calculations concerning wind bearing loading capacity and
other information relating to its suitability and safety as a permanent sign.
Permit fees shall be in accordance with the building permit schedule. One
application and permit shall be required for each such sign.
(Prior Code, § 159.24) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 19-04, passed 9-23-
2019; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.24 REMOVAL OF SIGNS BY CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager shall have the authority to have any temporary or
permanent sign removed that constitutes a public nuisance in that it endangers
the public health or safety. This may include situations such as a sign which
has been abandoned or is illegal as defined in this resolution, dangerous,
materially, electrically or structurally defective as may be identified by the
ARO. The City Manager shall keep the sign at the municipal offices until such
time the sign may be lawfully disposed of or returned pursuant to §
154.25(E).
   (B)   The City Manager shall also have the authority to have any sign
(except a valid nonconforming sign) removed that does not have a zoning permit
or a sign that is not in compliance with the zoning permit issued.
   (C)   Before removing any such sign, the City Manager shall first make all
reasonable efforts to prepare and serve upon the property owner or occupant a
notice which describes the sign and specifies the violation involved. This
notice shall require that a permanent sign be removed or the violation
corrected within the next ten days or that a temporary sign shall be removed or
the violation corrected within the next 24 hours. If no emergency exists and
the notice is not complied with, the City Manager will institute legal
proceedings for removal of the sign and for a possible violation of this code
pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code.
   (D)   All notices issued by the City Manager may be served by certified mail
or delivery to the property owner, current occupant or to a person temporarily
or permanently in charge of the establishment or the sign owner in the case of
temporary signs. Any time periods provided in this section shall be deemed to
commence on the date of the service of the notice.
   (E)   The property owner and current occupant shall be jointly and severally
obligated to reimburse the city immediately for all third party and
administrative expenses incurred in removing any sign including, but not
limited to, costs to the city for the time of city employees. If the violations
are corrected and removal obligations paid, the property owner, the occupant or
the sign owner of the temporary sign may reclaim the subject sign from the
city.
   (F)   The subject sign shall become the property of the city after 30 days
if removal costs are not paid or if violations are not corrected. Thereafter,
the sign shall be disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate by the City
Manager. This possible result shall also be explained by the served notice.
(Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.25 MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be maintained in accordance with the following.
   (A)   The property owner shall maintain the sign in a condition fit for the
intended use and has a continuing obligation to comply with all building code
requirements.
   (B)   Abandoned signs shall be completely removed from the premises within
60 days after such abandonment is established, unless said sign is converted to
another lawful and contemporary use within that 60-day period. The supporting
structure for abandoned signs shall be completely removed within a period of
one year after abandonment is established, unless a new and lawful sign is
established thereon.
   (C)   Whenever any sign, either conforming or nonconforming to these
regulations, is required to be removed for the purpose of repair or repainting,
the same may be done without a permit or any payment of fees provided that all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   There is no alteration or remodeling to the structure or the
mounting of the sign itself;
      (2)   There is no enlargement or increase in any of the dimensions of the
sign or its structure;
      (3)   There is no change in the sign message or its design; and
      (4)   The sign is accessory to a legally permitted, conditional or
nonconforming use.
   (D)   If a permanent sign is deemed by the City Manager to be in an unsafe
condition, the owner of the business shall be immediately notified, in writing,
and shall, within seven days of such notification, correct such unsafe
condition or remove the sign. The time may be extended up to 21 days by written
request to the City Manager if the owner provides evidence that it is not an
immediate safety risk and a contract to repair/replace has been entered. The
allowable time may be reduced if the sign or sign condition poses unreasonable
risk to public health and/or safety. If the correction has not been made within
the time allowed, the City Manager may remove, or cause such unsafe sign to be
removed, repaired or maintained at the expense of the property owner or lessee,
sign owner or sign lessee. If the amount owed for the removal of such sign is
not paid within 30 days of the notice, it shall become an assessment upon a
lien against the property of the sign owner, and will be certified as an
assessment against the property together with a 10% penalty for collection in
the same manner as real estate taxes. Written notice of abatement may be given
per the process outlined in §
154.99.
   (E)   In cases of emergency, the City Manager may cause the immediate
removal of a dangerous or defective permanent sign without notice. Signs
removed in this manner must present a hazard to the public safety as defined in
the Ohio Basic Building Code.
(Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.26 NUISANCE.
   Any sign erected or maintained in a manner inconsistent with this chapter,
including the failure to obtain a permit required by this chapter, is hereby
deemed a nuisance. Any such nuisance shall be subject to all remedies of law,
including removal thereof, in addition to any penalties or violations set forth
in §
154.99.
(Prior Code, § 159.25) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officer. The City Manager is hereby designated as the
enforcing officer of this chapter. The enforcing officer is hereby authorized
to enforce, issue orders to prevent and stop violations, and administer the
provisions of these regulations. The City Manager may be assisted by other
personnel as the members of City Council may authorize.
   (B)   Remedies. If any building or land is used, altered, constructed,
enlarged or any such action proposed in violation of the provisions of these
regulations or any amendment or supplement thereto, the City’s Law Director,
the City Manager, any person or any property owner damaged by or subject to
damage by such violation in addition to remedies provided by law is hereby
empowered or authorized to institute appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent such unlawful location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alterations, enlargement, change, maintenance or use.
   (C)   Notice of violation. The notice of any violation of these regulations
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Such notice shall be in writing, identify the violation, include a
statement of the reasons why it is being issued and refer to the section of
these regulations being violated, and state the time by which the violation
shall be corrected.
      (2)   Service of the notice of violation shall be by personal delivery to
the person or persons responsible, or by leaving the notice at the usual place
of residence of the owner with a person of 16 years or older, or by certified
mail, and first class simultaneously, addressed to the person or persons
responsible at a last known address. Service shall be deemed complete when a
certified mail receipt is received or first class mail is not returned after
ten days of mailing, or by posting a copy of the notice form in a conspicuous
place on the premises found in violation.
(Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any regulation, provision,
amendment or supplement to these regulations, or failing to obey any lawful
order of the City Manager issued pursuant thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or
the maximum amount allowed by the Ohio Revised Code. Each and every day during
which such illegal location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
enlargement, change, maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate
offense. The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, engineer, surveyor, builder, contractor, agent, or
other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation
may be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein
provided. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation
including issuing a misdemeanor citation for a continuing zoning resolution
violation.
(Prior Code, § 159.99) (Ord. 93-08, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 24-09, passed 11-25-
2024)
CHAPTER 155: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES REGULATED
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Establishment and classification of regulated businesses
   
155.04   Location of sexually oriented business
   
155.05   Nonconforming uses
   
155.06   Permit required
   
155.07   Application investigation process
   
155.08   Issuance of permit
   
155.09   Annual permit fee
   
155.10   Inspection
   
155.11   Expiration of permit
   
155.12   Suspension of permit
   
155.13   Revocation of permit
   
155.14   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation
   
155.15   Transfer of permit
   
155.16   Sexually oriented business employee license
   
155.17   Operation of sexually oriented business
   
155.18   Minors prohibited
   
155.19   Advertising and lighting regulations
   
155.20   On-premises advertising sign
   
155.21   Hours of operation
   
155.22   Nudity prohibited
   
155.23   Criminal penalties for the operation of a sexually oriented business
without a valid permit
   
155.24   Exemptions
   
155.25   Immunity from prosecution
   
155.26   Severability
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Illegal operation and activity of sexually oriented businesses, see §
133.19
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented
businesses through the application of uniform zoning requirements to promote
the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the city and
establish reasonable and uniform regulations for the operation of sexually
oriented businesses with the goal of reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects associated with sexually oriented businesses. It is not the
intent of this chapter to limit or restrict the content of communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials.
   (B)   Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict
or deny access by adults to materials protected by the First Amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market.
(Prior Code, § 164.01) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion, guide or date for another person, and who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person or to engage in any specified sexual activity as defined herein.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person who engages in the practice of
therapeutic massage, who has completed a course of study from a state
accredited school, and who is licensed by the state pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
   OPERATOR. Includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or
person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PROTECTED USES. Those uses listed below and defined as follows.
      (1)   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or held by the United
States, the state, the county, the city, any special district, school district
or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States,
which building is used for governmental purposes.
      (2)   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been
designated for park or recreational activities, including but not limited to a
park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness
areas or similar public land within the city which is under the control,
operation or management of the city park and recreation authorities.
      (3)   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or
building which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single-family, duplex, townhouse,
multiple family or mobile park or subdivision and campground as defined in the
zoning code.
      (5)   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including but
not limited to child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not
include any facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a SCHOOL.
   PUBLIC USE. Any use that is open to the public, regardless of whether a fee
is charged for admission.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. Those businesses defined as follows.
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock-in-trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration,
of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, computer generated
images, slides or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”; and/or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse.
      (2)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, “bottle club” or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear nude, semi-nude or in a state of nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, computer
generated images or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by
the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      (3)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” and which advertises the availability of this
sexually oriented type of material by means of permitted signage visible from
the public right-of-way, or by means of any permitted off-premises advertising,
including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets,
radio or television.
      (4)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
      (5)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are
characterized by exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified
sexual activities”.
      (6)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish or advertises to furnish escorts, as defined herein, as one
of its primary business purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
      (7)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with “specified sexual activities”
or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation or service related
thereto, exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas”. The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any
licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working
under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program, nor by a licensed massage
therapist.
      (8)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears
in a state of nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided for
money or any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (9)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment, that as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate or consort for the purpose of “specified sexual activities” or the
exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or activities when one or more of the
persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. The definition of SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS shall not include establishment where a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, a licensed massage therapist, or similar
professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used in this chapter means and includes any
of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. As used in this chapter means and includes any
of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTS. Sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape,
gross sexual imposition and other crimes connected with sexually oriented
businesses, including but not limited to distribution of obscenity or other
material harmful to minors, pandering, prostitution or tax violations in
connection with a sexually oriented business.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas exist
on March 1, 1996.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 164.02) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF REGULATED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted in a single commercial
zone and shall be subject to the restrictions of this chapter. Specifically,
sexually oriented businesses shall only be allowed in the Business A District
that lies on the north side of Madeira between Galbraith and Hosbrook Roads and
which abuts Montgomery Road as identified on Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance
96-12, passed March 11, 1996, and is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of these regulations as if set out in full. Sexually oriented
businesses are prohibited in all other districts.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses, as defined in §
155.02, are classified as follows:
      (1)   Adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store;
      (2)   Adult cabaret;
      (3)   Adult motel;
      (4)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (5)   Adult theater;
      (6)   Massage parlor;
      (7)   Sexual encounter establishment;
      (8)   Escort agency; or
      (9)   Nude model studio.
(Prior Code, § 164.03) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.04 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses may locate anywhere within the commercial
zone identified in §
155.03, provided that:
      (1)   There is an intervening visual barrier on the property between the
sexually oriented business and any protected use. Such barrier shall be either
an intervening building, fence, mound or other visual buffer, or combination
thereof, of sufficient height and density to provide a visual barrier between
the sexually oriented business and any adjacent protected use; and
      (2)   No two sexually oriented businesses are located on the same lot or
adjacent lots.
   (B)   The adequacy of any proposed intervening visual barrier required in
division (A)(1) of this section shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission at
a public hearing, which shall provide notice of such a hearing by posting the
time and place thereof on the official website of the municipality and in the
lobby of the municipal building at least ten days in advance of such hearing.
The Planning Commission shall also give written notice to interested parties.
Upon application for approval of the intervening visual barrier, the Planning
Commission shall consider, at a minimum, the following factors:
      (1)   Distance that the sexually oriented business is located from the
property line and occupied structures in the protected use;
      (2)   Aesthetics;
      (3)   Cost of barrier;
      (4)   Line of sight; and
      (5)   Ability and responsibility to maintain barrier.
   (C)   In no event shall the proposed intervening visual barrier be required
to exceed ten feet in height from ground level of the property at time of
installation on which the proposed sexually oriented business is located,
although the intervening visual barrier may in fact exceed ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 164.04) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
§ 155.05 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating at the time of the
enactment of this chapter that is in violation of §§
155.03 and
155.04 shall be deemed a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use may continue
for one year, and may be extended by the Planning Commission upon a showing of
extreme financial hardship, unless voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30
days or more. Such nonconforming uses may not be increased, enlarged, extended
or altered unless to a conforming use.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered nonconforming by the subsequent location of a protected use within
500 feet of the sexually oriented business. This division does not apply to a
business whose permit and/or license has expired or been revoked.
   (C)   Any establishment subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
apply for a permit as provided under §
155.06 within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 164.05) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.06 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the city. Operation of such a
business without a permit is a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, is responsible for granting,
denying, revoking, renewing, suspending and canceling permits for proposed or
existing sexually oriented businesses. To be approved, applications must comply
with all locational and zoning requirements of this chapter and the Zoning and
Building Codes of the city.
   (C)   Applications must be made on a form provided by the city. Applicants
must provide an original and two copies of a sworn application which must
contain the following information and documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual: the individual’s legal name, aliases and proof of
age over 18;
         (b)   A partnership: the complete name, all partners names and a copy
of any partnership agreement; and
         (c)   A corporation: its complete name; date of incorporation; names
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, name and address of its
registered agent and evidence of good standing under state law.
      (2)   The name of the sexually oriented business if different from the
applicant’s and any required registration documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any individual listed in division (C)(1)
of this section has been convicted of a specified criminal act as defined under
§
155.02 within either two years for misdemeanor offenses, or five years for
felony offenses or two or more misdemeanor offenses, immediately preceding the
application date, and, if so, the act involved and the date and place of the
conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or other listed individuals has had a
sexually oriented business permit revoked, suspended or denied and the name of
the business, the city or county of occurrence and the date on which the permit
was suspended, revoked or denied;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or other listed individuals hold any other
sexually oriented business permits and the names and locations of all other
such businesses;
      (6)   The proposed location of the business, including a legal
description of the property, street address and telephone number;
      (7)   The location and description of any intervening uses;
      (8)   The applicant’s business and residential addresses and telephone
numbers;
      (9)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number and
tax identification number;
      (10)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration and total floor
space of the premises. The sketch need not be professional, but must be drawn
to scale and accurate to plus or minus six inches;
      (11)   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting property
lines and structures and the property lines of any existing protected use
within 500 feet of the proposed business. A protected use is established if it
is in existence at the time the application is submitted;
      (12)   A sketch or drawing showing the location and dimensions of any
existing or proposed visual barriers between the proposed business and any
protected use. The sketch need not be professional, but must be drawn to scale
and accurate to plus or minus six inches; and
      (13)   The application must be signed by the individual applicant, and
each person who has at least a 10% interest in the business. If a corporation
is the applicant, then each person owning at least 10% of the corporation must
sign the application.
   (D)   Applicants are under a continuing duty to promptly update their
application information. Failure to do so within 30 days of the date of a
change in application information shall be grounds for permit suspension.
   (E)   If the City Manager or his or her designee learns that an applicant
improperly completed the permit application, the City Manager or his or her
designee shall promptly notify the applicant and allow ten days for correction.
   (F)   A $150 non-refundable application fee is due at the time the applicant
files an application under this section.
   (G)   Prior to obtaining a permit to operate a sexually oriented business,
the applicant shall obtain a certification that the proposed location complies
with the locational requirements of the chapter.
   (H)   The possession of other types of state or city permits and/or
licenses, including a liquor license, does not exempt an applicant from the
requirement of obtaining a sexually oriented business permit.
   (I)   By filing an application under this section, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the
investigation of the application by the City Manager and his or her designees.
   (J)   The applicant is required to provide the city with the names of all
employees required to be licensed under §
155.16 of this chapter. This obligation continues even after a permit is
granted or renewed.
   (K)   A sexually oriented business permit may be renewed annually upon
written application, subject to the payment of a $30 renewal fee, and a finding
that the permit holder is still in conformance with the permit requirements.
This fee is in addition to the payment of an annual permit fee required under §
155.09.
(Prior Code, § 164.06) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.07 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION PROCESS.
   Upon receipt of an application, the City Manager or his or her designee
shall send photocopies of the application to all city agencies responsible for
the enforcement of Health, Fire, Building and Zoning Codes and laws. Each
agency shall investigate the application for compliance with its respective
code and approve or disapprove the application within 20 days of the receipt of
the application by the city. An agency shall disapprove an application if it
finds that the business would be in violation of any provision of any statute,
code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in the city and the reason
(s) for disapproval must be stated.
(Prior Code, § 164.07) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.08 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Time. An application shall be granted or denied within 30 days from
the date of its proper filing.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   An application shall be granted unless one of the criteria of
division (C) of this section is met.
      (2)   The permit shall state on its face the name of the person or
persons to whom it is granted and the address of the sexually oriented business
and the permit expiration date. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so it can be
read at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   An application may be denied for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue on the payment
of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed by the city in relation to a
sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been denied or revoked within the preceding 12
months;
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information as requested in
the application or has supplied false information;
         (e)   The premises to be used are not in compliance with City Health,
Fire and/or Building Codes as determined by the city agency responsible for
determining such compliance;
         (f)   The $150 application fee has not been paid;
         (g)   The proposed business does not comply with §§
155.03 and
155.04;
         (h)   To grant the application would violate a statute, ordinance or
court order;
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked;
         (j)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
within the time limitation of §
155.06(C)(3); and/or
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in §
155.16.
      (2)   Applicants shall be promptly notified of an application denial and
the reasons for denial.
(Prior Code, § 164.08) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.09 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $850.
(Prior Code, § 164.09) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.10 INSPECTION.
   Representatives of the city enforcement agencies, County Health Department
and the Fire Department shall be permitted to inspect a sexually oriented
business to determine compliance with their respective departments, at any time
it is occupied or open for business. The failure to allow inspection is
unlawful and is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 164.10) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.11 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed by making an application under §
155.06(K) at least 30 days before the expiration date. If a renewal is denied,
a new permit shall not be issued for one year from the date of denial. If the
basis for denial has been corrected and at least 90 days have elapsed from the
date the denial became final, a new permit may be granted.
(Prior Code, § 164.11) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.12 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to operate a sexually oriented business may be suspended until the
violation causing the suspension has been corrected, provided that the period
is not to exceed 30 days, if a permittee or an employee of a permittee:
   (A)   Violates or is not in compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   Works at the sexually oriented business while under the influence of
alcohol;
   (C)   Refuses to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business in
accord with this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permits gambling on the premises of the sexually oriented
business;
   (E)   Fails to correct a violation of a Building, Fire, Health or Zoning
Code within seven days of notification of such violation;
   (F)   Transfers the sexually oriented business permit to another in
violation of this chapter; or
   (G)   Knowingly employs a person without a valid license as required in §
155.16 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 164.12) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.13 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit to operate a sexually oriented business shall be revoked upon
a determination that either a permit is to be suspended for a second time
within a 12-month period or that a permittee or employee of a permittee:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information on the permit application
which enhanced the permittee’s opportunity to obtain a permit;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed the possession, sale or use of a controlled
substance on the premises;
      (3)   Knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   Knowingly operated the business while under permit suspension;
      (5)   Has been convicted of a “specified criminal act” for which the time
period required in §
155.06(C)(3) has not elapsed;
      (6)   Committed a specified criminal act on the permitted premises on one
or more occasions within a 12-month period while employed by the permit holder;
      (7)   Has been convicted of tax violations for taxes or fees related to a
sexually oriented business;
      (8)   Allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sexual conduct or any other
specified sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
      (9)   Operated more than one sexually oriented business under a single
roof.
   (B)   A permit shall be revoked for one year and a permittee shall not
receive any other permits for any other sexually oriented businesses during the
one-year revocation period. If the basis for revocation is corrected, the
applicant may be granted a new permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since
the date the revocation became effective.
(Prior Code, § 164.13) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.14 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   An applicant or permittee may seek review of a denial of an application,
denial of a renewal of an application, suspension or revocation of a permit
through the Board of Zoning Appeals or special review board if one is
established. If the denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed on review, the
applicant or permittee may seek review of the administration decision in the
County Court of Common Pleas.
(Prior Code, § 164.14) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 17-10, passed 9-25-
2017)
§ 155.15 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business at any
place other than the address designated in the application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer a permit to another person unless that
person:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit upon the satisfactory completion
of an application; and
      (2)   Pays a transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee.
   (C)   A permit may not be transferred when the permittee has been notified
that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against
the permittee.
   (D)   A permit shall not be transferred to another location.
   (E)   Any transfer attempted in violation of this section is void and will
revoke the permit.
(Prior Code, § 164.15) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.16 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   All employees of a sexually oriented business who engage in the
services rendered by a nude model studio, escort or escort agency, sexual
encounter establishment, massage parlor as defined under this chapter, or a
live performer or entertainer are required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license. Each applicant shall pay a permit fee of $25 to
cover reasonable administration costs.
   (B)   On a form provided by the city the applicant shall provide his or her:
      (1)   Name, including any “stage” names or aliases;
      (2)   Age, birth date and birthplace;
      (3)   Current resident and business addresses and phone numbers;
      (4)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (5)   State driver’s license or identification number and Social Security
number;
      (6)   Proof of minimum age of 18;
      (7)   A color photograph and fingerprints on a form provided by the City
Police Department;
      (8)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the previous five years including information as to whether a
permit had ever been denied, revoked or suspended, the reason for such action,
the date of such action and the jurisdiction in which such action occurred; and
      (9)   Information as to whether the applicant has been convicted of a
“specified criminal act” as defined in §
155.02 and the date, place, jurisdiction and nature of such conviction.
   (C)   The application review shall be completed within ten days of filing.
The employee license shall be issued unless the city finds that:
      (1)   The applicant knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact;
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal act”
within the time periods prohibited by §
155.06(C)(3);
      (4)   The license is to be used in a business prohibited by this chapter
or other local or state law; or
      (5)   The applicant has had an employee license revoked within two years
of the date of the current application.
   (D)   An employee license may be renewed annually upon written application
subject to the payment of a $10 renewal fee and a finding that the applicant is
still in conformance with the application requirements.
(Prior Code, § 164.16) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.17 OPERATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business:
   (A)   In any manner except as provided under this chapter;
   (B)   Within proximity of any protected use without an intervening use and/
or visual buffer;
   (C)   In the same building as an existing sexually oriented business, or
causes the substantial enlargement of any sexually oriented business without
obtaining an additional permit; or
   (D)   Without a valid permit as required under §
155.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 164.17) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.18 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business and knowingly or with reasonable cause to
know, permits, suffers or allows:
   (A)   A person under 18 years of age to be admitted, remain or purchase
goods or services at the business premises without the specific consent of a
parent or guardian; or
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to be employed at the premises.
(Prior Code, § 164.18) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.19 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business and:
      (1)   Advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by this
chapter or other local or state regulation;
      (2)   Displays or exhibits the materials and performances in advertising
which is visible outside the premises except for advertising showing the
existence or location of a sexually oriented business; and/or
      (3)   Fails to illuminate the premise entries and off-street parking
areas from dusk until closing with a lighting system which provides a minimum
maintained horizontal illumination of one footcandle of light on the parking
surface and walkways.
   (B)   Nothing in this section relieves the permittee from compliance with
any other provision of the codified ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 164.19) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.20 ON-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN.
   On-premises advertising signs shall be permitted as allowed under §
154.09 of the codified ordinances of the city for districts zoned for business
uses.
(Prior Code, § 164.20) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.21 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business and allows the business to remain open,
or to permit any employee to engage in a performance, solicit a performance,
make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service or solicit a service between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day. Any employee who
engages in the above activity also commits a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 164.21) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.22 NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   Public nudity, as defined under §
155.02 of this chapter and R.C. § 2907.01(H) is prohibited in sexually oriented
businesses. Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation of this
section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of §
155.12.
(Prior Code, § 164.22) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.23 CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT.
   In addition to the criminal penalties found in other sections of this
chapter, it shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business and knows or
should know that the business does not have a sexually oriented business permit
or has a permit which has expired or which has been suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 164.23) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for violation of this chapter that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college or university supported in whole or in
part by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferrable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is permitted at a time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business exposed any specified anatomical area
during the bona fide use of a restroom or dressing room accessible only to
employees.
(Prior Code, § 164.24) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.25 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The city, the Police Department and all other city officers, agents and
employees, charged with enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be
immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass
upon a sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of authority
conferred by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 164.25) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.26 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
divisions and clauses shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 164.26) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any applicable penalties under state or county law, any
person convicted of a criminal offense under this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not
to exceed 60 days, or both. Each violation or noncompliance shall be considered
as a separate offense as will each day of continued violation or noncompliance.
   (B)   The city may take any such lawful action to prevent or remedy any
violation or noncompliance, including but not limited to an equitable action
for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
(Prior Code, § 164.99) (Ord. 96-12, passed 3-11-1996)
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Statutory authorization
   
156.002   Findings of fact
   
156.003   Statement of purpose
   
156.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
156.005   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
156.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
156.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.008   Interpretation
   
156.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
156.010   Severability
   
156.011   Definitions
Administration
   
156.025   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
156.026   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
156.027   Floodplain development permits
   
156.028   Application required
   
156.029   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
156.030   Inspections
   
156.031   Post-construction certifications required
   
156.032   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
156.033   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
156.034   State and federal development
   
156.035   Map maintenance activities
   
156.036   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
156.037   Use of preliminary flood insurance rate map and/or flood insurance
study data
   
156.038   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
156.050   Generally
   
156.051   Use regulations
   
156.052   Water and wastewater systems
   
156.053   Subdivisions and other new developments
   
156.054   Residential structures
   
156.055   Nonresidential structures
   
156.056   Accessory structures
   
156.057   Recreational vehicles
   
156.058   Gas or liquid storage tanks
   
156.059   Assurance of flood-carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
156.070   Appeals Board established
   
156.071   Powers and duties
   
156.072   Appeals
   
156.073   Variances
   
156.074   Procedure at hearings
   
156.075   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
156.090   Compliance required
   
156.091   Notice of violation
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the City Council does
ordain as follows.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.01)
§ 156.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The city has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.02)
§ 156.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding;
   (D)   Generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (E)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (F)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (G)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (I)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (J)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (K)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (L)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (M)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.03)
§ 156.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.04)
§ 156.005 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city as identified in §
156.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
city.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.05)
§ 156.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and flood insurance study (FIS) for
Hamilton County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas both effective June 7, 2023;
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard;
and
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the state which has been approved by the
city as required by §
156.053, Subdivisions and Other New Developments.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the Madeira Municipal Building, 7141 Miami
Avenue, Madeira, Ohio 45243.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.06)
§ 156.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations are not intended to repeal,
abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed
restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.07)
§ 156.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.08)
§ 156.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.09)
§ 156.010 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of these regulations be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the
part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 160.10)
§ 156.011 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the lowest adjacent natural grade elevation plus the depth
number (from one to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions.
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
in any given year; base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES A1-30 AND ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood in any given year; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
in any given year; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow
on sloping terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
in any given year; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of
ponding); base flood elevations are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus two feet of
freeboard. In areas where no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative
source, the FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION can be historical flood elevations, or
base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity flood waters;
high potential for debris and projectile impacts; and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio’s inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by city’s historic preservation program, which program is certified by the Ohio
Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood elevations
and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are broken down into the
following categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A comment by FEMA
regarding a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the
hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in
the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood
elevations, or the special flood hazard area. A CLOMR does not amend or revise
effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, or flood
insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an “enclosure below the
lowest floor” which is an unfinished or flood- resistant enclosure usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other
than a basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with
the applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for
enclosures below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle. For the purposes of
these regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 4781.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the O.A.C. 4781-12-01(K), any tract
of land upon which three or more manufactured homes, used for habitation are
parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
roadway, building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the
individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the
purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is not a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured homes are parked
thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government authority.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK does not include any tract of land used solely for the
storage or display for sale of manufactured homes.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program enabling property
owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection against
losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an insurance
alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of repairing
damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. Participation in the
NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities and the federal
government that states if a community will adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all development in
special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make flood insurance
available within the community as a financial protection against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or
after the effective date of a floodplain regulation adopted by the city and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
      (2)   For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for
which the “start of construction’‘ commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM (November 15, 1979) and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
      (2)   An AGENCY is further defined in the R.C. § 111.15(A)(2) as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. AGENCY does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general’s department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture pursuant to R.C. §§ 4703.01 and 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30 or A99. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also refer to
areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal state or local
sources of data including but not limited to historical flood information
reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone
soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to the “before damaged” condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, Ch. 161)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.025 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager is hereby appointed to administer and implement these
regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.01)
§ 156.026 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, floodproofing
certificates, variances, and records of enforcement actions taken for
violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.02)
§ 156.027 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including, but not limited to, filling, grading,
construction, alteration, remodeling or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
156.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.03) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.028 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required
for all development activities located wholly within, partially within or in
contact with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be
made by the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein
referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such
construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether
a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain
Administrator may require an application for a floodplain development permit to
determine the development’s location.
   (B)   Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations; and
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the state and submitted with an application for a floodplain
development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Floodproofing certification for nonresidential floodproofed
structure as required in §
156.055;
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
156.054(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
156.059(C);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
156.059(B);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
156.059(A); and
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and other
new developments as required by §
156.053.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.04)
§ 156.029 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
156.028 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1 et
seq. and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1343.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If the Floodplain Administrator is satisfied that the development
proposed in the floodplain development application conforms to the requirements
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue the permit. All
floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the commencement of
work within 180 days. A floodplain development permit shall expire 180 days
after issuance unless the permitted activity has been substantially begun and
is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.05)
§ 156.030 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.06)
§ 156.031 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered professional surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For
elevated structures in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation,
the elevation certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s
representative;
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
156.035(A), a letter of map revision; and
   (C)   For new or substantially improved nonresidential structures that have
been floodproofed in lieu of elevation, where allowed, the applicant shall
supply a completed floodproofing certificate for nonresidential structures
completed by a registered professional engineer or architect together with
associated documentation.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.07)
§ 156.032 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
156.070 through
156.075 of these regulations.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.08)
§ 156.033 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be required for
maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing, or for small
nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading) valued at
less than $2,500.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.09)
§ 156.034 STATE AND FEDERAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Development that is funded, financed, undertaken or preempted by state
agencies shall comply with minimum NFIP criteria.
   (B)   Before awarding funding or financing or granting a license, permit or
other authorization for a development that is or is to be located within a 100-
year floodplain, a state agency shall require the applicant to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the agency that the development will comply with minimum
NFIP criteria and any applicable local floodplain management resolution or
ordinance as required by R.C. § 1521.13. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Commerce and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. Chapter 4781-12;
      (2)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906; and
      (3)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734.
   (C)   (1)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which
are subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management, being 3
C.F.R., 1977 Comp., p. 117.
      (2)   Each federal agency has a responsibility to evaluate the potential
effects of any actions it may take in a floodplain; to ensure that its planning
programs and budget request reflect consideration of flood hazards and
floodplain management; and to prescribe procedures to implement the policies
and requirements of EO 11988.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.10)
§ 156.035 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the city’s flood maps,
studies and other data identified in §
156.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or other new development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
156.053.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with division (A)(1) of this section, prepared in a
format required for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision, and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map
revisions shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in riverine areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1) of
this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the City Manager, and may be
submitted at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the city’s flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the city boundaries, include within such notification a
copy of a map of the city suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new
corporate limits or the new area for which the city has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.11)
§ 156.036 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §
156.070 through 156.075, Appeals and Variances.
   (D)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.12)
§ 156.037 USE OF PRELIMINARY FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP AND/OR FLOOD INSURANCE
STUDY DATA.
   (A)   Zone A.
      (1)   Within Zone A areas designated on an effective FIRM, data from the
preliminary FIRM and/or FIS shall be reasonably utilized as best available
data.
      (2)   When all appeals have been resolved and a notice of final flood
elevation determination has been provided in a letter of final determination
(LFD), BFE and floodway data from the preliminary FIRM and/or FIS shall be used
for regulating development.
   (B)   Zones AE, A1-30, AH and AO.
      (1)   BFE and floodway data from a preliminary FIS or FIRM restudy are
not required to be used in lieu of BFE and floodway data contained in an
existing effective FIS and FIRM. However:
         (a)   Where BFEs increase in a restudied area, communities have the
responsibility to ensure that new or substantially improved structures are
protected. Communities are encouraged to reasonably utilize preliminary FIS or
FIRM data in instances where BFEs increase and floodways are revised to ensure
that the health, safety and property of their citizens are protected; and
         (b)   Where BFEs decrease, preliminary FIS or FIRM data should not be
used to regulate floodplain development until the LFD has been issued or until
all appeals have been resolved.
      (2)   If a preliminary FIRM or FIS has designated floodways where none
had previously existed, communities should reasonably utilize this data in lieu
of applying the encroachment performance standard of §
156.059(B) since the data in the draft or preliminary FIS represents the best
data available.
   (C)   Zones B, C and X.
      (1)   Use of BFE and floodway data from a preliminary FIRM or FIS are not
required for areas designated as Zone B, C or X on the effective FIRM which are
being revised to Zone AE, A1-30, AH or AO.
      (2)   Communities are encouraged to reasonably utilize preliminary FIS or
FIRM data to ensure that the health, safety and property of their citizens are
protected.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.13)
§ 156.038 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire and the like.
   (B)   After such a damage event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Require owners of substantially damaged structures to obtain a
floodplain development permit prior to repair, rehabilitation or
reconstruction.
   (C)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 162.14)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 156.050 GENERALLY.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §
156.006,
156.036(A) or
156.037.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, Ch. 163)
§ 156.051 USE REGULATIONS.
   All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or any other applicable
land use regulation adopted by the city are allowed provided they meet the
provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.01)
§ 156.052 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems in the absence of any more restrictive standard provided
under the Ohio Revised Code or applicable state rules:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.02)
§ 156.053 SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage;
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less; and
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
156.035(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.03)
§ 156.054 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   The requirements of this section apply to new construction of residential
structures and to substantial improvements of residential structures in zones
A, A1-30, AE, AO and AH, when designated on the community’s effective FIRM, and
when designated on a preliminary or final FIRM issued by FEMA under the
circumstances provided in §
156.037.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Where a
structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or above
the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (this division (A))
and construction materials resistant to flood damage (division (B) of this
section) are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection elevation data are not available the structure shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings to allow the automatic equalization of hydrostatic pressure may
have an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the
following standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.04)
§ 156.055 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   The requirements of this section apply to new construction and to
substantial improvements of nonresidential structures in Zones A, A1-30, AE, AO
and AH, when designated on the community’s effective FIRM, and when designated
on a preliminary or final FIRM issued by FEMA under the circumstances provided
in §
156.037.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
156.054(A) through (C) and (E) through (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
division (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section.
   (C)   Where flood protection elevation data are not available, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.05)
§ 156.056 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Structures that are 600 square feet or less which are used for parking and
storage only are exempt from elevation or dry floodproofing standards within
Zones A, A1-30, AE, AO and AH designated on the community’s FIRM. Such
structures must meet the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
156.054(E)(3);
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.06)
§ 156.057 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles on sites within Zones A, A1-A30, AE, AO or AH must
meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   They must be placed on the site pursuant to a floodplain development
permit issued under §§
156.027 and
156.028, and meet all standards of §
156.054.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.07)
§ 156.058 GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   Within Zones A, A1-A30, AE, AO, or AH, new or substantially improved above
ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or
lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.08)
§ 156.059 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
156.035(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the City Manager and the Chief Executive Officer
of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c) through (A)(2)(e) of this
section.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the “bankfull
stage”. The field determination of “bankfull stage” shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply.
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
city specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is required,
it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
156.035(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 163.09)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 156.070 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city’s Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby appointed to serve as the
Appeals Board for these regulations as established by the city’s zoning code §
150.029 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in the Madeira
Municipal Building, 7141 Miami Avenue, Madeira, OH 45243.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 164.01)
§ 156.071 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
156.073 of these regulations.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 164.02)
§ 156.072 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within 30 days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 164.03)
§ 156.073 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   All applications for a variance shall be accompanied by a variance
application fee set in the schedule of fees adopted by the city.
   (B)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and hold a
public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be posted on the city’s website at least ten days before the
date of the hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   At such hearing the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations and the following factors:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (3)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (D)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   (a)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1)(a) to (C)(1)(k)
of this section have been fully considered.
         (b)   As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 164.04)
§ 156.074 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   (1)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses.
      (2)   A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and service
shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   (1)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its
decision.
      (2)   The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and
thereafter issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a
reasonable time after the hearing.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 164.05)
§ 156.075 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Hamilton Court of Common Pleas, pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 164.06)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.090 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
156.033.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
156.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
156.999.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 165.01) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.091 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, they shall give notice of such
violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with these
regulations as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner, occupant
or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to the
person’s last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/or a
copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 165.02)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Any person who violates
these regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the city.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The city shall
prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with the penalties
stated herein.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 4-10-2023, § 165.03)
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 04-21, passed 8-23-2004)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
      
II.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES; FRANCHISES
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   STREET NAMES
      
VII.   VACATIONS OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
VIII.   ZONING
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
                            Acceptance and dedication of streets of the Madeira
5             11            Land and Building Company, Osler, Wesley, Meyer and
                            Juler Streets.
56            83            Acceptance and dedication of streets in Done’s
                            Subdivision.
83            115           Acceptance and dedication of streets in Madeira
                            Park Subdivision.
100           139           Acceptance of streets in Madeira Heights.
466           450           Acceptance of Wehrman’s Subdivision.
512           527           Acceptance of streets in Section A, Miami Hills
                            Subdivision.
516           532           Dedication of Rita Lane and parts of Vermas Avenue.
517           533           Dedication of certain streets in Gallridge
                            Subdivision.
525           541           Dedication of streets in Section B, Gallridge
                            Subdivision.
538           566           Dedication of Thomas Drive and Locust Lane, A and
                            B.
551           595           Dedication of portions of Thomas and Tances Drives.
561           621           Acceptance and dedication of Rita Lane.
576           653           Acceptance of Britten Court.
577           654           Acceptance of portions of Greenbriar Lane,
                            Mapleleaf Street, Fowler Street and the like.
584           667           Acceptance and dedication of Vermas Avenue, Rita
                            Lane to Thomas Drive.
587           671           Acceptance and dedication of Berwood Drive, Jethve
                            Lane and Homart.
591           682           Acceptance and dedication of Buckeye Crescent and
                            Thomas Drive.
604           699           Acceptance and dedication of Shewango Way.
613           711           Acceptance and dedication of Mingo Lane.
625           740           Acceptance and dedication of Mar Del Drive and
                            Fowler Street.
644           782           Dedication of parts of Thomas Drive and Rathon
                            Street.
645           784           Dedication of Tances and Thomas Drives.
663           826           Acceptance of streets in Longfield Subdivision.
666           831           Acceptance of top portion of Thomas Drive.
667           832           Acceptance of portion of Dee Street.
686           868           Dedication of Loannes Drive and Court.
768           1097          Dedication of Sycamore Hills Lane.
769           1098          Dedication of a part of Miami Avenue.
846           1184          Dedication of Willowhollow Lane.
886           1226          Dedication of Oakbrook Court and part of Redondo
                            Court.
1135          11-5-1973     Acceptance and dedication of Madeira Hills and
                            Graylock Drives.
1593          7-19-1982     Accepting a portion of Lakota Street, Kenwood Road,
                            Cherwin Drive and Caribou Court.
1594          7-19-1982     Accepting the streets in Camargo Woods Subdivision
                            and Maxfield Lane, Blocks A and B.
1648          8-15-1983     Accepting a portion of Lakota Street and Foxdale
                            Court.
88-40         8-1-1988      Dedication and acceptance of Nuevelle Lane of
                            Maisons Grand Subdivision.
90-43         5-21-1990     Acceptance of dedication of Fulsher Lane for public
                            use.
90-48         9-4-1990      Accepting public improvement in Fox Hill
                            Subdivision.
                            Accepting the public improvements of Windridge
91-10         1-21-1991     Drive and Windsong Court in the Villages of Kenwood
                            Subdivision.
                            Accepting the public improvements of the southeast
92-37         4-20-1992     corner of the intersection of Miami Avenue and
                            Kugler Mill Road.
92-77         10-19-1992    Accepting the public improvements of Shawnee Hills
                            Drive of the Shawnee Hills Subdivision.
                            Dedication and acceptance of the public
93-05         1-4-1993      improvements of Burman Woods Drive and Woodmeadow
                            Drive of the Burman Woods Subdivision.
                            Accepting the dedication of 0.072 acres as public
98-03         1-12-1998     right-of-way on Laurel Avenue from the Tri-Health
                            Bethesda Properties.
                            Approving the dedication plat and accepting the
98-18         4-13-1998     area designated as right-of-way of the Fox Chase
                            subdivision.
98-19         4-13-1998     Accepting 1.4664 acres of real estate located on
                            the west side of the Fox Chase subdivision.
                            Approving the dedication plat and accepting the
98-34         7-27-1998     area designated as public right-of-way adjacent to
                            6242 Fulsher Lane.
                            Accepting the dedication of 0.12 acres as public
98-39         8-24-1998     right-of-way on Camargo Road from Anchor
                            Associates.
01-05         2-12-2001     Accepting the public improvements of Fox Chase Lane
                            in the Foxchase Subdivision.
03-16         8-25-2003     Accepting the public improvements of Shawnee Lake
                            in the Shawnee Reserve Subdivision.
08-09         1-28-2008     Accepting the public improvements of Charlesfield
                            Lane in the Fox Hunt Subdivision.
08-10         1-28-2008     Accepting the public improvements of Carriage Hill
                            Lane in the Carriage Hill Subdivision.
                            Approving and accepting the public improvements of
13-09         2-25-2013     Madeira Pines Drive in the Madeira Pines
                            Subdivision.
                            Approving the donation of properties located at
24-08         8-26-2024     7010 and 7014 Miami Avenue to the Community
                            Improvements Corporation of Greater Cincinnati,
                            Inc.
                           
 
TABLE II: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./ Page
Res.  No./ Description
No.   Date
421   346  Purchase of property at Miami and Laurel Corner.
435   392  Purchase of Buck property on Railroad Avenue.
438   395  Sale of property at Miami and Laurel Corner.
557   614  Agreement with Board of Education for sale of six acres for park.
689   786  Accepting bid for sale of real property.
823   1155 Appropriating property for construction of addition to garage.
867   1206 Purchase of certain property on Railroad Street.
875   1214 Agreement with Board of Education for use of property for public recreational
           purposes.
877   1216 Board of Education recreational property.
      8-
1099  14-  Lease for five years with B. & O. Railroad Company for depot property.
      1972
      1-
1151  21-  Purchase of Daniel C. and Norma R. Maxfield property.
      1974
1170  5-6- Purchase of Imbus Lumber Company property.
      1974
1173  7-8- Purchase of Lena Spaulding property.
      1974
      10-
1178  7-   Amendment of the five-year lease of B. & O. Railroad property.
      1974
      10-
1270  4-   Purchase of Eddie L. and Ida L. R. Bronson property.
      1976
      10-  Agreement with Board of County Commissioners for the Kenwood and Euclid Roads
1273  18-  intersection improvement project.
      1976
      1-
1665  16-  Conveyance of 0.2458 acres to the Madeira Community Improvement Corporation.
      1984
87-38 9-8- Purchase of Madeira Railroad Depot.
      1987
89-11 3-6- Allocating funds for development and purchase of real estate in the Central
      1989 Business District.
89-24 6-3- Accepting real estate on the northeast corner of Miami and Railroad Avenue.
      1989
      5-
90-42 21-  Accepting real estate on east side of Miami (Hosbrook Home).
      1990
R-11- 3-   Authorizing and directing execution of purchase contract for the sale of real
93    29-  estate on Laurel Avenue.
      1993
      8-   Lease agreement with the CSX Realty Company for the purpose of leasing
93-48 16-  approximately 300 feet of railroad right-of-way to install landscaping
      1993 adjacent to the Kroger property and the Railroad Depot.
      6-   Lease agreement with Walter Albrecht (d/b/a Wally’s Ice Cream) for rental of
94-37 20-  the Madeira Train Depot.
      1994
      10-
94-48 3-   Lease agreement for real estate located at 7014 Miami Avenue.
      1994
Res.  7-   Lease agreement with AT&T Wireless, Inc. for property at 7465 Dawson Road to
06-97 28-  construct a wireless communications tower.
      1997
      12-  Sale of a portion of real property Parcel No. 525-01-461 to Richard Ranz, 7900
98-55 14-  Euclid Avenue.
      1998
      5-   Amendment to lease with MDR Inc., dba Choo Choo’s Restaurant, 7701 Railroad
01-16 30-  Avenue.
      2001
      10-
01-35 8-   Lease agreement for real estate located at 7014 Miami Avenue.
      2001
02-13 4-8- Directing vacation and conveyance of the Stevens Place property to adjoining
      2002 property owner.
      8-
02-30 26-  Lease agreement for real estate located at 7014 Miami Avenue.
      2002
      4-
03-08 14-  Lease agreement for real estate located at 7010 Miami Avenue.
      2003
      4-   Lease agreement with MDR Inc., dba Choo Choo’s Restaurant, for the property
09-09 14-  located at 7701 Railroad Avenue (Railroad Depot).
      2003
      9-
03-21 22-  Lease agreement for real estate located at 7014 Miami Avenue (Hosbrook House).
      2003
      8-
04-26 23-  Lease agreement for real estate located at 7014 Miami Avenue (Hosbrook House).
      2004
Res.  6-   Lease agreement with Board of Education of the Madeira School District for use
05-05 27-  of school gymnasiums.
      2005
      10-
05-28 10-  Lease agreement for real estate located at 7014 Miami Avenue (Hosbrook House).
      2005
      8-   Authorizing and directing execution of lease agreement for real estate located
08-35 25-  at 7014 Miami Avenue (Hosbrook House).
      2008
      9-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease for the property located at
09-26 28-  7010 Miami Avenue (Muchmore House).
      2009
      10-  Authorizing and directing execution of lease agreement for real estate located
09-24 12-  at 7014 Miami Avenue (Hosbrook House).
      2009
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease agreement with MDR
09-27 12-  Enterprises, Inc., dba Choo Choo’s Restaurant, for the property located at
      2009 7701 Railroad Avenue (Railroad Depot).
      8-   Authorizing and directing execution of lease agreement for real estate located
10-18 23-  at 7014 Miami Avenue (Hosbrook House).
      2010
      6-   Approving the transfer of properties located at 7010 and 7014 Miami Avenue to
24-06 22-  the Community Improvement Corporation of Greater Cincinnati, Inc.
      2024
      11-  Authorizing and directing donation agreement transferring properties located
24-10 4-   at 7010 and 7014 Miami Avenue to the Community Improvement Corporation of
      2024 Greater Cincinnati, Inc.
      11-  Authorizing and directing execution of right of first refusal agreements
24-12 4-   between the city and W Four LLC in connection with W Four LLC’s purchase of
      2024 7010 and 7014 Miami Avenue from the Community Improvement Corporation of
           Greater Cincinnati, Inc.
      11-  Authorizing and directing the Community Improvement Corporation of Greater
24-13 4-   Cincinnati, Inc. to execute the real estate purchase agreement conveying
      2024 properties located at 7010 and 70140 Miami Avenue to W Four LLC.
          
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./Res. Page No./ Description
No.       Date
299       65        Legal description.
387       268       Annexation of Osceola Park.
442       403       Annexation of Hosbrook property.
452       447       Approval of Hosbrook annexation.
482       482       Acceptance of Gallenstien annexation.
543       577       Acceptance of territory north for annexation.
685       867       Detachment of territory.
794       1127      Accepting application for annexation.
851       1189      Accepting application for annexation.
92-29     3-16-1992 Accepting annexation on application of owners of real
                    estate, Wright Builders.
93-28     5-3-1993  Accepting annexation on property known as Goldwasser’s
                    property.
96-59     9-9-1996  Accepting annexation of 2.71 acres from Columbia
                    Township.
21-03     6-28-2021 Accepting annexation of property containing 1.608 acres
                    from Columbia Township.
 
TABLE IV: CONTRACTS FOR CITY SERVICES; FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./ Page
Res.  No./ Description
No.   Date
10    22   Power company, street lighting.
16    30   Power company, ten-year franchise to erect poles and wires.
64    99   CGS Telephone, permit to erect poles and wires.
184   231  Power company, repeal of Ord. 16.
187   236  Union Gas and Electric, 25-year franchise.
315   100  Fire protection contract.
319   112  Fire protection contract.
326   119  Cincinnati, contract for use of workhouse.
356   212  Cincinnati, auxiliary fire protection.
392   278  Fire contract, 1943.
401   310  Fire contract, 1944.
408   327  Garbage contract.
413   337  Fire contract, 1945.
425   357  CG&E, 25-year franchise for poles and wires.
429   373  Fire contract, 1946.
434   391  Fire contract, 1947.
448   416  Fire contract, 1948.
462   444  Fire contract, 1949.
473   464  Fire contract, 1950.
476   467  Garbage contract.
484   488  Indian Hill, contract for water.
487   498  Fire contract, 1951.
495   504  Modifying garbage contract, Ord. 476.
501   511  Hamilton County Disposal plant, contract.
508   522  Fire contract, 1952.
511   526  Garbage contract.
518   534  Garbage contract.
520   536  Water contract.
531   556  Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, contract.
539   568  Hamilton County, establish local Civil Defense.
552   596  Gas and Electric Company, contract for 6,000 lumens lights.
565   629  Fire protection contract.
570   642  Garbage contract.
573   645  CG&E, contract for mercury vapor street lighting.
589   679  Garbage disposal contract.
619   729  Fire contract, 1956.
642   777  Fire protection agreement.
652   801  CG&E, granting rights.
659   815  Waste collection contract.
665   828  CG&E, street lighting.
670   834  Mayfield accepting extension.
687   869  Fire protection contract, 1959.
703   894  Max Dixon, waste collection contract.
707   907  Fire contract.
709   913  Telephone Company agreement.
734   994  B. & O. Railroad, agreement.
753   1072 H & H disposal service contract.
755   1077 Fire contract.
772   1101 Fire contract.
797   1129 Board of Library trustees contract.
801   1133 Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, fire contract.
810   1142 Waste collection contract.
833   1165 Fire contract.
862   1201 Waste collection contract.
868   1207 Fire contract.
890   1230 Fire contract.
922   1283 Fire contract.
925   1286 Waste collection contract.
      4-
1163  15-  Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, fire protection contract.
      1974
1250  4-5- District Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General Health District, public
      1976 health services contract.
1255  5-3- Hamilton County Board of County Commissioners, housing of prisoners contract.
      1976
      10-
1266  18-  CG&E three-year street lighting contract.
      1976
1280  2-7- District Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General Health District, public
      1977 health services contract.
1281  2-7- Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, fire protection contract.
      1977
      10-
1316  17-  Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, fire protection contract.
      1977
      11-
1318  21-  Clermont Waste, Incorporated, two-year trash and waste disposal contract.
      1977
      5-   District Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General Health District, public
1348  15-  health services contract.
      1978
      10-
1366  2-   Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, fire protection contract.
      1978
      10-
1367  2-   B. & O. Railroad agreement for sewer installation.
      1978
      4-   County-wide police assistance and mutual aid agreement with other political
1403  30-  subdivisions.
      1979
      7-   Participation in Regional Enforcement Narcotics Unit (RENU), with County Police
1402  16-  Association.
      1979
      5-
1443  22-  Warner Amex Cable Communications, Inc., a 15-year franchise for cable television.
      1980
      7-
1603  19-  CG&E 25-year franchise to place gas transmission and distribution facilities.
      1982
      11-  Agreement with Madeira Community Improvement Corporation under Ohio R.C. §
1614  15-  1724.10.
      1982
1629  3-7- County-wide police assistance and mutual aid agreement with other political
      1983 subdivisions.
      7-   District Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General Health District, public
1645  11-  services contract.
      1983
      7-   District Advisory Council of the Hamilton County General Health District, public
1658  11-  health services contract.
      1983
      1-
1663  16-  Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company, fire protection contract.
      1984
      1-
1664  16-  Dick’s Cleaning Service for custodial and maintenance service.
      1984
1668  3-5- County Engineer’s office, to participate in Ohio Department of Transportation
      1984 sign distribution program.
1688  9-4- Hamilton County, agreement pursuant to Housing and Community Development Act of
      1984 1974.
86-03 2-3- Contract with Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      1986
86-14 4-7- Contract with the District Advisory Council of Hamilton County General Health
      1986 District for providing public health services for the city.
      11-
86-30 3-   Five-year contract with Rumpke Waste Systems for trash collection and disposal.
      1986
87-01 1-5- Contract with Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      1987
87-16 5-4- Contract with the District Advisory Council of Hamilton County General Health
      1987 District for providing public health services for the city.
87-39 9-8- Authorization to enter into agreement with City of Cincinnati for water service
      1987 by accepting County Water Area Contract, for a 30-year term.
      10-  Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to provisions of the
87-48 1-   Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
      1987
88-22 - -  Agreement with Hamilton County regarding improvement of Shawnee Run Road.
      1988
88-03 1-4- Contract with the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      1988
88-06 1-4- Labor negotiations contract with Ohio Council 8, Association of Federal, State,
      1988 County and Municipal Employees.
88-07 2-1- Contract for mutual supplementary police service with the cities of Blue Ash,
      1988 Even-dale, Forest Park, Indian Hill, Montgomery, Reading and Sharonville.
88-09 2-1- Contract with Brandstetter/Carr oll, Inc., for the preparation of a stormwater
      1988 master plan for the city.
88-13 3-7- Acceptance of Cincinnati Security Services, Inc., for park security services.
      1988
88-26 5-2- Contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gehrum Consultants for the preparation of a
      1988 traffic study of the city’s Central Business District.
88-30 6-6- Contract with Rogers, Rogers and Associates, Inc. to review and update policies
      1988 and regulations for the Police Department.
88-33 6-6- Contract with Hamilton County Board of Health for providing public health
      1988 services for the city.
88-37 8-1- Authorization to enter into contract with Woolpert Consultants for providing city
      1988 with a Park and Recreation Study.
      11-  Authorization to enter into contract with Carter Construction Co. for sidewalk
88-57 7-   replacement throughout entire city.
      1988
      1-   Amending article 16, § 16.1, wages and compensation, and article 17, § 17.1
89-03 25-  insurance, of a labor contract between the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio Valley
      1989 Lodge #112 and the city.
      4-6- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract relative to the cities of
88-63 1989 Loveland, Norwood and Union Township, Butler County providing supplementary
           police protection to each other.
89-25 6-3- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Madeira/Indian
      1989 Hill Joint Fire District.
      7-
89-44 10-  Authorizing participation in ODOT Cooperative Purchasing program.
      1989
      7-   Authorizing the acceptance of a contract with the County of Hamilton Board of
89-45 10-  Health.
      1989
      5-   Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to provisions of the
93-30 17-  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
      1993
      5-   Amendment to contract with Rumpke Waste, Inc. for recycling services and solid
93-32 17-  waste collection and disposal for the residents of the city.
      1993
      5-   City elects to exercise its option to extend current contract and amendments with
93-33 17-  Rumpke Waste, Inc.
      1993
      6-   Directing Tax Commissioner to enter into an agreement regarding determination of
93-38 21-  taxes.
      1993
      6-   Amendment to the contract with Rumpke Waste, Inc. for recycling services and
93-39 28-  volume based solid waste collection and disposal for the residents of the city.
      1993
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to notify Rumpke Waste, Inc. that the city elects to
93-40 28-  exercise its option to extend the current contract and amendments thereto through
      1993 the fiscal year 1994, repealing Ord. 93-33.
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Ray Prus and Sons for
93-41 12-  concrete work on Madeira Hills Drive and Juler Avenue.
      1993
      7-
93-42 12-  Acceptance of a contract with the County of Hamilton Board of Health.
      1993
      7-   Acceptance of Cargill Salt Company, P.O. Box 5622 Minneapolis, MN 55440-5622, for
93-43 12-  providing rock salt through April 30, 1994.
      1993
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with American Legal
93-44 12-  Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati for codification services.
      1993
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with G.J. Thelen and
93-47 16-  Associates, Inc. for construction review services on the Camargo Road bridge/
      1993 culvert rehabilitation.
      9-8- Authorizing the City Manger to contract with the Ohio Municipal League Joint
93-50 1993 Self-Insurance Pool for liability/property insurance on behalf of the city for an
           amount not to exceed $45,464.
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute Change Order No. 1 with Ray Prus and
93-54 4-   Sons, Inc. for installation of handicap access ramps on Miami Avenue.
      1993
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the CSX Transportation, Inc. for
93-53 18-  the installation of a rubber crossing on Shawnee Run Road.
      1993
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Ohio Municipal League (OML)
93-56 1-   Joint Self-Insurance Pool for stop gap liability insurance on behalf of the city
      1993 for an amount not to exceed $1,925.
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Brandstetter/Carr oll,
93-64 6-   Inc. for the engineering design services on the Dawson Road improvement project.
      1993
94-06 - -  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the Ohio Department of
      1994 Transportation for the resurfacing of U.S. 22 within the limits of the city.
94-01 1-3- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Madeira/Indian
      1994 Hill Joint Fire District.
94-02 1-3- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with William Fiedler for
      1994 professional services as the Chief Building Official.
94-03 1-3- Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Center for Local Government for
      1994 municipal information services for FY 1994.
      1-3- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a collective bargaining agreement with
94-05 1994 the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Ohio
           Council 8.
94-13 2-7- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Schumacher- Dugan,
      1994 Inc. for the Rita Lane storm improvement project.
      2-7- Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Coughlin Ford, Inc., 670 Coshocton
94-15 1994 Road, Johnstown, Ohio for the purchase of a 1994 Ford Crown Victoria police
           cruiser.
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Time Warner Cable, a
94-16 21-  division of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., for a period of 15 years.
      1994
      3-7- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Community Mutual
94-19 1994 Insurance Company to provide the employees of the city with health insurance from
           April 1, 1994 to March 31, 1995.
      3-7- Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Cincinnati Truck Center, 10045
94-20 1994 Windisch Road, West Chester, Ohio for the purchase of a 1994 GMC 2-ton cab and
           chassis truck.
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Coughlin Ford, Inc., 670 Coshocton
94-25 18-  Road, Johnstown, Ohio for the purchase of a 1994 Ford Crown Victoria police
      1994 cruiser.
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract and become a member of the
94-26 18-  Miami Valley Risk Management Association, Inc. and a participant in the Miami
      1994 Valley Risk Management Pool to provide property, casualty and liability insurance
           coverage on a continuing basis.
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Dental Care Plus for
94-27 18-  providing dental benefits for the full-time employees of the city.
      1994
      5-2- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent agreement with the Ohio
94-32 1994 Department of Transportation for the construction, installation and maintenance
           of a regional traffic management system on I-71.
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with John R. Jurgenson,
94-33 16-  Company for the 1994 street repair program.
      1994
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with T. Luckey and Sons,
94-34 16-  Inc. for the slabjacking repairs on Woodsway Drive/Rollaway Drive/Rosalee Lane.
      1994
      6-   Authorizing the acceptance of Cargill Salt Company, P.O. Box 5622 Minneapolis, MN
94-36 20-  55440-5622, for providing rock salt through April 30, 1995.
      1994
      7-   Authorizing the acceptance of a contract with the County of Hamilton Board of
94-38 11-  Health.
      1994
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Denham Pride for review services
94-39 11-  with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      1994
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Auditor of State
94-40 11-  for the purpose of conducting the FY92-FY93 financial compliance audit.
      1994
      7-   Approving the appointment of the Architectural Review Officer and authorizing a
94-41 11-  contract with David H. Ballweg.
      1994
      9-7- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with McCaffery Testing,
94-44 1994 Inc. to provide testing services for the civil service entrance examination for
           the Police Department.
      9-7- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Hartman and Smith
94-46 1994 Construction, 2327 Bethel-New Hope Road, Bethel, Ohio 45106 for sidewalk
           replacement throughout the city.
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management
94-59 12-  Association for property, casualty and liability insurance for FY95.
      1994
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to notify Rumpke Waste, Inc. that the city elects to
94-62 12-  exercise its option to extend the current contract and amendments thereto through
      1994 the fiscal year 1995.
95-01 1-4- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Madeira/Indian
      1995 Hill Joint Fire District.
      1-4- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Inspection Bureau,
95-03 1995 Inc., for providing electrical inspections and plans examination for the city for
           a three-year period from January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1997.
      6-5- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement to participate in the
95-49 1995 Miami Valley Risk Management Association’s Workers’ Compensation Group rating
           plan for 1996.
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Schumacher Dugan Construction for
96-41 24-  the Hosbrook House parking lot project.
      1996
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with American Legal Publishing for
96-42 24-  codification services.
      1996
      6-   Approving amendment to contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gehrum Consultants
96-45 24-  regarding Miami Avenue beautification project.
      1996
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton
96-46 24-  County under the Community Development Act.
      1996
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Hamilton County Board of
96-49 22-  Health.
      1996
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with North American Salt Co. for
96-50 22-  provision of rock salt.
      1996
      7-
96-52 22-  Approving amendment to contract with A.M. Kinney Consultants for bikeway project.
      1996
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with L.P. Cavett Co. for street repair
96-54 26-  work.
      1996
96-57 9-9- Authorizing the City Manager to contract with CG&E and Cincinnati Bell for
      1996 relocation of utility lines (amends Ord. 95-60).
96-60 9-9- Authorizing the City Manager to contract with ABCO Pavement Co. for resurfacing
      1996 tennis courts.
      9-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Bill Roberts Construction for
96-63 23-  concession building at McDonald Commons.
      1996
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Jeff Evans as Architectural Review
96-66 14-  Officer.
      1996
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Stenger Ford for purchase of police
96-69 28-  vehicle.
      1996
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Jeffrey Allen Corp. for Hosbrook
96-70 28-  House landscaping project.
      1996
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with 32 Ford-Mercury for purchase of
96-73 28-  police cruiser.
      1996
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into collective bargaining agreement with
96-75 11-  AFSCME.
      1996
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Ray Prus and Sons for the Miami
96-53 2-   Avenue beautification project.
      1996
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Brandstetter/Carr oll for
96-78 2-   engineering consulting services.
      1996
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with William Fiedler for service as
96-79 2-   Chief Building Official.
      1996
      12-
96-80 2-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with MVRMA for insurance.
      1996
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Rumpke for waste and recycling
96-77 16-  collection.
      1996
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Auditor of State for payment of
97-02 13-  services.
      1997
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Jeffrey Allen Corp. for the
97-04 25-  Hosbrook House landscaping project.
      1997
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with United Health Care Insurance Co.
97-12 14-  for health insurance.
      1997
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Standard Insurance Co. for life
97-13 14-  insurance.
      1997
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Co. for
97-14 14-  dental insurance.
      1997
      4-
97-16 14-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with L.P. Cavett Co. for street repairs.
      1997
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Bill Roberts Construction Co. for
97-18 28-  renovation of 7010 Miami Avenue.
      1997
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ODOT for improvement to
97-20 12-  Hosbrook and Montgomery Roads intersection.
      1997
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Power Technology Engineering, Inc.
97-21 12-  for the Miami Avenue beautification project.
      1997
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gerhum for
97-22 12-  landscaping services.
      1997
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into agreement to participate in MVRMA
97-23 12-  Workers’ Compensation Group Rating Plan.
      1997
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Eagle Eye Video Monitoring Co. for
97-24 12-  purchase of video equipment for police cruisers.
      1997
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Tamara Schlagbaum for landscaping
97-25 28-  design services for Shawnee Hills Drive.
      1997
      7-   Authorizing an amendment to the contract with Jeffrey Allen Landscaping for the
97-30 28-  Hosbrook House landscaping project.
      1997
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Hamilton County General Health
97-31 28-  District for health services.
      1997
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Denham Pride to conduct an audit of
97-32 28-  motor vehicle license fees.
      1997
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Micro 1 Computer Center for
97-34 25-  purchase of computer equipment.
      1997
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Pageant Landscape for the Shawnee
97-35 25-  Hills Drive landscaping project.
      1997
      9-   Contract with Groundmasters, Inc. for the 1999 athletic field maintenance and
98-44 28-  restoration.
      1998
      10-  Contract with Stewart Iron Works for design services on the Millennium Plaza
98-46 12-  Fountain at Dawson Road.
      1998
      10-  Contract with Thomas Graham and Associates for the preparation of a dedication
98-47 12-  plat for the corner of Camargo Road and Miami Avenue.
      1998
      10-
98-48 26-  Contract with Stengers Ford for the purchase of one police cruiser.
      1998
      10-  Contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide health
98-49 26-  services to the city for FY99.
      1998
      10-  Contract with G.J. Berding Surveying, Inc. for services to survey the Railroad
98-50 26-  Avenue right-of-way.
      1998
      12-  Collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police/Ohio Labor
98-51 14-  Council, Inc.
      1998
      12-  Contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief Building
98-52 14-  Official.
      1998
      12-
98-53 14-  Agreement with Brandstetter/Carr oll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      1998
      12-  Contract with the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill
98-54 14-  Joint Fire District.
      1998
      1-   Contract with the Village of Indian Hill for the purchase of a one-ton lift
99-01 11-  truck.
      1999
      1-   Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association for property,
99-04 25-  casualty, and liability insurance for FY99.
      1999
99-05 2-8- Contract with Tepe Environmental Services, Ltd. for the installation of an
      1999 irrigation system at McDonald Commons.
99-07 2-8- Contract with the Hamilton County Engineer for the installation of a traffic
      1999 signal at the intersection of Euclid Avenue and Hosbrook Road.
99-08 2-8- Contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gehrum for a traffic engineering study in the
      1999 Railroad/Centre Street area.
99-09 3-8- Contract with John R. Jurgensen Company for the 1999 street repair program.
      1999
      3-   Agreement with Stewart Iron Works, Inc. for the purchase of a fountain for the
99-11 22-  Millennium Fountain Plaza project.
      1999
      3-   Agreement with Walnut Grove Fence and Playground for the supply and installation
99-13 22-  of playground equipment at McDonald Commons.
      1999
      4-   Amending the contract with G.J. Berding Surveying, Inc. for the Railroad Avenue
99-14 12-  right-of-way survey.
      1999
      4-   Contract with Groundmasters, Inc. for property and grounds maintenance on various
99-23 12-  sites on Miami Avenue.
      1999
      4-   Contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide health
99-24 26-  services to the city for FY2000.
      1999
      4-   Contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Company for providing dental benefits
99-28 26-  for full-time employees of the city.
      1999
      5-   Agreement with Anthem Premier for providing health insurance coverage for full-
99-32 10-  time employees of the city.
      1999
      5-   Contract with IMC Salt Company for the provision of rock salt through April 30,
99-33 24-  2000.
      1999
      5-   Contract with Imagine Professional Cleaning Limited for maintenance services on
99-35 24-  Miami Avenue.
      1999
      6-   Agreement to participate in the Miami Valley Risk Management Association’s
99-29 28-  Workers’ Compensation Group Rating Plan for 2000.
      1999
      6-   Agreement relative to the improvement of Miami Avenue Phase I between the city
99-36 28-  and the Board of Hamilton County Commissioners.
      1999
      6-   Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to provisions of the
99-37 28-  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.
      1999
      6-   Contract with Valley Interior Systems, Inc. for the exterior painting and trim of
99-39 28-  the Hosbrook House and the Railroad Depot.
      1999
      6-   Contract with Susan C. Pride to conduct an audit of the motor vehicle license
99-40 28-  fees.
      1999
      6-   Contract with Atkins and Stang for electric utility work for the Sellman Park
99-42 28-  renovation project.
      1999
      7-
99-43 19-  Contract with Langenheim and Thomson for the Sellman Park renovation project.
      1999
      8-
99-45 23-  Contract with Surface Stone, Inc. for the Madeira Millennium Plaza 2000 project.
      1999
      8-   Amending the contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gehrum Consultants, Inc. for the
99-46 23-  Madeira Millennium Plaza 2000 project.
      1999
      9-
99-52 13-  Agreement with the ODB Co. for the purchase of a vacuum leaf loader.
      1999
      9-   Contract with McCaffery Testing, Inc. to provide testing services for the civil
99-53 13-  service entrance examination for the Police Department.
      1999
      10-
99-56 25-  Contract with 32 Ford-Mercury, Inc. for the purchase of one police cruiser.
      1999
      12-  Contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief Building
99-63 13-  Official commencing January 1, 2000.
      1999
      12-
99-64 13-  Agreement with Brandstetter/Carr oll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      1999
      12-  Collective bargaining agreement with the American Federation of State, County and
99-67 13-  Municipal Employees Ohio Council 8.
      1999
      1-   Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association for property, casualty
00-01 10-  and liability insurance for FY00.
      2000
      1-   Contract with the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill
00-04 10-  Joint Fire District.
      2000
      1-
00-05 24-  Agreement with Hamilton County Engineer for the Montgomery Road widening project.
      2000
      1-   Contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gehrum Consultants, Inc. for design services
00-07 24-  related to the Madeira Millennium Plaza 2000 project.
      2000
      3-
00-08 13-  Contract with John R. Jurgensen Co. for the 2000 street repair program.
      2000
      4-   Contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Co. for providing dental benefits for
00-13 24-  full-time employees of the city.
      2000
      4-   Agreement with Anthem Premier for providing health insurance coverage for full-
00-14 24-  time employees of the city.
      2000
      4-
00-16 24-  Contract with Trend Construction for the 2000 IUKA stormwater project.
      2000
00-12 5-8- Contract with IMC Salt Co. for the provision of rock salt through April 30, 2001.
      2000
00-15 5-8- Contract with T. Luckey and Sons, Inc. for the installation of structural grout
      2000 on the Euclid Avenue stormwater project.
      5-   Agreement to participate in the Ohio Municipal League’s city “B” Workers’
00-17 22-  Compensation Group Rating Plan for 2001.
      2000
      8-   Contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide health
00-22 28-  services to the city for FY2001.
      2000
      10-  Agreement with Wayne Building for the purchase and construction of a vehicle
00-28 9-   storage building.
      2000
      11-
00-30 27-  Contract with Planet Ford for the purchase of one police cruiser.
      2000
      12-  Agreement with Inspection Bureau, Inc. for providing electrical inspections and
00-33 11-  plans examination for the city.
      2000
      12-  Contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief Building
00-34 11-  Official commencing January 1, 2001.
      2000
      12-
00-35 11-  Agreement with Brandstetter/Carr oll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      2000
01-01 1-8- Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association for property,
      2001 casualty, and liability insurance for FY01.
01-02 1-8- Contract with the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill
      2001 Joint Fire District.
      2-   Contract with Jan-Pro Cleaning Systems of Cincinnati for janitorial service for
01-04 12-  the Madeira Municipal Building.
      2001
      3-
01-06 12-  Contract with Ray Prus and Sons for the 2001 street repair program.
      2001
      3-   Contract with Security Fence for the replacement and installation of guardrails
01-07 12-  on Camargo Road and Dawson Road.
      2001
      3-   Contract with Pflum, Klausmeier and Gehrum Consultants, Inc. for the design of
01-08 12-  traffic signals for three intersections on Miami Avenue.
      2001
01-10 4-9- Contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Co. for providing dental benefits for
      2001 full-time employees of the city.
01-11 4-9- Agreement with Anthem Blue Cross for providing health insurance coverage for
      2001 full-time employees of the city.
      4-
01-14 23-  Contract with IMC Salt Co. for the provision of rock salt through April 30, 2002.
      2001
      7-   Contract with the Hamilton County General Health District for health services for
1-17  23-  FY02.
      2001
      7-   Agreement with Board of Hamilton County Commissioners relative to the improvement
01-23 23-  of Camargo Road.
      2001
      7-   Contract with Unicustom for installation of traffic signals at three
01-24 23-  intersections on Miami Avenue.
      2001
      7-
01-25 23-  Contract with L.P. Cavett for the 2001 Camargo Road resurfacing project.
      2001
      9-   Contract with McCluskey Chevrolet for the purchase of one 2002 Chevrolet two-ton
01-27 10-  dump truck.
      2001
      11-  Contract with Sunesis Construction for the purchase and construction of two park
01-39 16-  shelters.
      2001
      12-  Contract with CSI Waste for solid waste and recycling collection services for
01-45 10-  2002 through 2006.
      2001
      12-
01-47 10-  Agreement with Brandstetter/Carr oll, Inc., for consulting engineering services.
      2001
      12-
01-48 10-  Contract David H. Ballweg for Architectural Review Officer services.
      2001
      12-  Contract with Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire
01-49 10-  District.
      2001
      12-
01-50 10-  Contract with William Fiedler for Chief Building Official services.
      2001
      12-  Collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police/Ohio Labor
01-51 10-  Council, Inc.
      2001
      12-  Amending Ord. 01-39; contract with Sunesis Construction for the purchase and
01-52 10-  construction of two park shelters.
      2001
      1-   Contract with Miami Valley Risk Management Association for property, casualty and
02-02 28-  liability insurance for FY02.
      2002
      2-   Contract with Luce Electric for the relocation of Sellman Park athletic field
02-06 25-  lighting panel.
      2002
      3-
02-07 11-  Contract with Brock and Sons, Inc. for the 2002 street repair program.
      2002
      3-   Contract with McCaffery Testing, Inc, to provide testing services for the Police
02-11 25-  Department civil service entrance examination.
      2002
      4-   Contract with Howell Contractors, Inc. for the Cherokee and Osceola drainage
02-12 22-  improvements.
      2002
      4-   Agreement with Anthem Blue Cross for health insurance coverage for full-time city
02-14 22-  employees.
      2002
      4-
02-15 22-  Contract with Dental Care Plus for dental benefits for full-time city employees.
      2002
      4-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 2 with Sunesis Construction for the
02-18 22-  Sellman Park improvements.
      2002
      4-   Authorizing execution of Change Order Nos. 7 through 12 with Sunesis Construction
02-19 29-  for the Sellman Park improvements.
      2002
      5-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Brock and Sons Inc., for the
02-20 13-  2002 street repair program.
      2002
      5-   Contract with Ford Development Corp. for the installation of sidewalks and curbs
02-22 13-  on Dawson Road.
      2002
      5-   Contract with Howell Contractors for the Spring Crest Circle storm and street
02-23 29-  improvements.
      2002
      6-   Authorizing execution of Change Order Nos. 3 and 4 for the 2001 Miami Avenue
02-21 24-  traffic signalization project with Unicustom Inc.
      2002
      6-
02-25 24-  Contract with Jeffrey Allen for the Sellman Park landscape improvements.
      2002
      6-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Ford Development Corp. for the
02-24 24-  replacement of sidewalks and curbs along Dawson Road.
      2002
Res.  6-   Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to provisions of the
05-02 24-  Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.
      2002
      7-
02-26 15-  Contract with Jeffrey Allen for the Sellman Park landscape improvements.
      2002
      7-   Contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide health
02-27 22-  services to the city for fiscal year 2003.
      2002
      8-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 2 with L.P. Cavett Co. for the Camargo
02-28 26-  Road resurfacing project.
      2002
Res.  8-
08-02 26-  Mutual aid contract with the Southwest Ohio Building Officials Association.
      2002
      11-  Contract with Edwards and Kelcey, Inc., for professional design services on the
02-35 11-  Railroad Depot project.
      2002
      11-  Contract with Morton Salt Co. for the provision of rock salt through April 30,
02-37 11-  2003.
      2002
      11-
02-38 11-  Agreement with Terrence M. Donnellon as Special Legal Counsel.
      2002
      12-
02-42 9-   Agreement with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc., for consulting engineering services.
      2002
      12-  Contract with the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire
02-43 9-   Department.
      2002
      12-
02-45 9-   Collective bargaining agreement with AFSCME Ohio Council 8.
      2002
      1-   Contract with 32 Ford Mercury Inc., Fleet Division, for the purchase of one Crown
03-01 13-  Victoria police cruiser.
      2003
      1-   Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association (MVRMA) for property,
03-02 13-  casualty and liability insurance for fiscal year 2003.
      2003
      3-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Howell Contractors for the
03-03 10-  Kenview/Spring Crest storm sewer improvements.
      2003
      3-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Howell Contractors for the
03-04 10-  Cherokee Drive/Osceola storm sewer improvements.
      2003
      3-
03-05 10-  Contract with Brock and Sons, Inc., for the 2003 street repair program.
      2003
      4-   Agreement with Humana Choice Care for provision of health insurance coverage for
03-10 28-  the employees of the city.
      2003
      4-   Contract with Dental Care plus for provision of dental benefits for the employees
03-11 28-  of the city.
      2003
      6-
03-12 23-  Agreement with Seitz Builders for the construction of a salt storage building.
      2003
      7-   Contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide health
03-13 28-  services to the city for fiscal year 2004.
      2003
      7-   Contract with Larry Smith Contractors, Inc., for the sanitary sewer lateral
03-14 28-  replacement at 7099 Thomas Drive.
      2003
      8-   Contract with North American Salt Co. for the provision of rock salt through
03-17 25-  April 30, 2004.
      2003
      10-  Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Larry Smith Contractors, Inc.,
03-22 13-  for the sanitary sewer lateral replacement at 7099 Thomas Drive.
      2003
      12-
03-34 8-   Agreement with Brandstetter Carroll Inc., for consulting engineering services.
      2003
      12-
03-35 8-   Contract with David H. Ballweg as Architectural Review Officer.
      2003
      12-  Contract with the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire
03-36 8-   Department.
      2003
      12-  Contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief Building
3-37  8-   Official, commencing January 1, 2004.
      2003
      12-  Contract with Statewide Ford for the purchase of one 2004 Crown Victoria police
03-39 8-   cruiser.
      2003
      1-   Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association (MVRMA) for property,
04-02 12-  casualty and liability insurance for fiscal year 2004.
      2004
      1-
04-04 12-  Contract with the Board of Education of Madeira Local School District.
      2004
      2-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Brock and Sons, Inc., for the
04-07 23-  2003 street paving program.
      2004
04-08 3-8- Contract with Wiggins Cleaning and Carpet Service for janitorial service for the
      2004 Madeira Municipal Building.
04-09 3-8- Contract with Adleta Construction for the 2004 street repair program.
      2004
      4-   Agreement with Humana Choice Care for provision of health insurance coverage for
04-15 26-  the employees of the city.
      2004
      4-   Contract with Dental Care Plus for provision of dental benefits for the employees
04-16 26-  of the city.
      2004
      7-   Contract with Hamilton County General Health District to provide health services
04-25 26-  to the city.
      2004
      8-
04-19 23-  Contract with Glasgow Construction for the 2004 Railroad Depot deck improvement.
      2004
      9-
04-27 13-  Contract with R.A. Miller Construction for the 2004 sidewalk improvement project.
      2004
      9-
04-31 27-  Contract with North American Salt for provision of rock salt.
      2004
      12-  Contract with the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire
04-35 13-  District.
      2004
      12-
04-36 13-  Agreement with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      2004
      12-  Contract with Statewide Ford for the purchase of one 2005 Crown Victoria police
04-38 13-  cruiser.
      2004
      12-  Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Glasgow Construction for the
04-39 13-  2004 Railroad Depot deck improvements.
      2004
      1-   Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association (MVRMA) for property,
05-01 10-  casualty and liability insurance.
      2005
      3-   Agreement with Hamilton County for the construction of improvements to Hosbrook
05-08 14-  Road and Miami Road.
      2005
      3-
05-09 14-  Contract with Adleta Construction for the 2005 street repair program.
      2005
      4-   Amending contract with Statewide Ford for the purchase of one 2005 Crown Victoria
05-11 11-  police cruiser.
      2005
      4-   Agreement with Humana Choice Care for providing health insurance coverage for the
05-12 11-  employees of the city.
      2005
      4-   Contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Company for providing dental benefits
05-13 11-  for the employees of the city.
      2005
      4-   Contract with Clark, Schaefer, Hacket and Co. to render accounting services to
05-15 25-  the city.
      2005
Res.  6-   Lease agreement with the Board of Education of the city school district for the
05-05 27-  use of the school gymnasiums.
      2005
      7-   Contract with Hamilton County General Health District to provide health services
05-20 25-  to the city.
      2005
      7-   Authorizing execution of Change Order No. 1 with Adleta Construction, Inc., for
05-21 25-  the 2005 street paving program.
      2005
      10-  Contract with North American Salt for the provision of rock salt through April
05-31 24-  30, 2006.
      2005
      11-  Contract with Columbia Township for the purchase of one 1992 Chevrolet dump
05-34 14-  truck.
      2005
      12-
05-37 12-  Agreement with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc., for consulting engineer services.
      2005
      12-  Contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief Building
05-39 12-  Official.
      2005
      12-
05-45 12-  Collective bargaining agreement with AFSCME Ohio Council 8.
      2005
05-36 1-9- Contract with the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire
      2006 District.
06-01 1-9- Contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association (MVRMA) for property,
      2006 casualty and liability insurance for fiscal year 2006.
06-02 1-9- Contract with Statewide Ford for the purchase of one 2006 Crown Victoria police
      2006 vehicle.
06-03 1-9- Collective bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association
      2006 (OPBA).
06-04 1-9- Contract with Statewide Ford for the purchase of one 2006 Ford Taurus police
      2006 vehicle.
      3-
06-06 13-  Contract with Barrett Paving for the 2006 street repair program.
      2006
      3-   Contract with Schaefer, Hackett and Co. to render accounting services for the
06-11 27-  year ending December 31, 2006.
      2006
      3-   Authorizes execution of Change Order No. 1 with Barrett Paving Materials, Inc.,
06-12 27-  for the 2006 street paving program.
      2006
      4-   Contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Company for providing dental benefits
06-13 10-  for the employees of the city.
      2006
      4-   Agreement with Humana Choice Care for providing health insurance coverage for the
06-14 24-  employees of the city.
      2006
      4-   Agreement with Cornette/Violetta Architects, LLC, for consulting architecture
06-17 24-  services.
      2006
06-07 5-8- Contract with Jeffrey Allen Construction for the McDonald Commons park trail
      2006 improvements project.
      6-   Amending Ord. 05-37, agreement with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc., for consulting
06-19 26-  engineer services, as amended.
      2006
      8-   Authorizing contract with North American Salt Company for the provision of rock
06-30 28-  salt through April 30, 2007.
      2006
      8-   Authorizing agreement with City of the Village of Indian Hill for construction of
06-34 28-  improvements and sidewalks to Shawnee Run Road.
      2006
      9-   Authorizing contract with J.K. Meurer Paving for repairs and reconstruction of
06-32 11-  the McDonald Commons tennis courts.
      2006
      9-   Authorizing contract with Imbus Roofing Co., Inc., for repairs to municipal
06-38 11-  building roof.
      2006
      9-   Authorizing contract with Nortrax for the purchase of a John Deere model 332 skid
06-39 25-  steer loader and attachments.
      2006
      10-  Authorizing agreement with Humana Choice Care for providing health insurance
06-40 9-   coverage for the employees of the city.
      2006
      10-  Authorizing contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide
06-44 9-   health services to the city for fiscal year 2007.
      2006
      10-  Authorizing contract with the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/
06-46 23-  Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2006
      12-  Authorizing contract with CSI Waste for solid waste and recycling collection
06-48 11-  services for 2007-2011.
      2006
      12-  Authorizing agreement with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc., for consulting engineering
06-51 11-  services.
      2006
      12-  Authorizing contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief
06-52 11-  Building Official commencing January 1, 2007.
      2006
      12-  Authorizing contract with the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/
06-53 11-  Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2006
07-15 - -  Authorizing lease agreement with Harley-Davidson of Cincinnati for a 2007 Harley-
      2007 Davidson motorcycle.
06-50 1-8- Authorizing contract with the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/
      2007 Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
07-01 1-8- Authorizing contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association (MVRMA)
      2007 for property, casualty and liability insurance for FY07.
07-02 1-8- Authorizing contract with 32 Ford for the purchase of a 2007 Ford Crown Victoria
      2007 police vehicle.
      2-   Authorizing agreement with Beyond Data, Inc. for the preparation and analysis of
07-04 12-  a community residents and business survey.
      2007
      2-   Authorizing contract with John R. Jurgensen Paving, Inc. for the 2007 street
07-06 26-  repair program.
      2007
      2-   Authorizing a joint use and operation agreement with the Madeira Board of
07-07 26-  Education for the Madeira High School athletic fields.
      2007
Res.  4-
03-07 23-  Authorizing addendum to agreement between CSI Waste Services and the city.
      2007
      4-   Authorizing contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Company for providing dental
07-16 23-  benefits for the employees of the city.
      2007
      4-   Authorizing agreement with Humana Choice Care for providing health insurance
07-17 23-  coverage for the employees of the city.
      2007
      5-   Authorizing contract with Clark, Schaefer, Hackett and Co. to render accounting
07-19 14-  services to the city for the year ending December 31, 2006.
      2007
      5-   Authorizing contract with Atkins and Stang Electric, Inc., for the installation
07-20 14-  of pedestrian signal improvements on Miami Avenue.
      2007
      6-   Authorizing contract with 32 Ford for the purchase of a Ford F-550 dump truck
07-21 25-  under the state cooperative purchasing program.
      2007
      6-   Authorizing contract with North American Salt Company for the provision of rock
07-22 25-  salt through April 30, 2008.
      2007
      7-   Authorizing contract with Adleta Construction for the installation of concrete
07-24 23-  curbs for public parking improvements at 7124 Miami Avenue.
      2007
      7-   Authorizing contract with Adleta Construction for the installation of concrete
07-25 23-  curbs for public parking improvements at 7124 Miami Avenue.
      2007
      9-   Authorizing contract with Statewide Ford for the purchase of one 2008 Ford Crown
07-31 10-  Victoria police vehicle.
      2007
      10-  Authorizing contract with the Hamilton County General Health District to provide
07-36 8-   health services to the city for fiscal year 2008.
      2007
      10-  Authorizing contract with Municipal Income Tax Solutions for the purchase of e-
07-37 22-  file software for the Tax Department.
      2007
      11-  Authorizing contract with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc. for the engineering design
07-38 12-  and construction administration for the Shawnee Run Road resurfacing project.
      2007
      12-  Authorizing contract with City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/
07-44 10-  Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2007
      12-  Authorizing contract with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering
07-45 10-  services.
      2007
      12-  Authorizing contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief
07-46 10-  Building Official (CBO) commencing January 1, 2008.
      2007
      12-  Authorizing contract with A&M Contracting, Inc. for the renovation to the
07-48 10-  Muchmore House.
      2007
      1-   Authorizing contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management Association (MVRMA)
08-01 14-  for property, casualty and liability insurance.
      2008
      1-   Authorizing contract with Statewide Ford Mercury for purchase of one 2008 Ford
08-07 14-  Crown Victoria police vehicle.
      2008
      1-   Authorizing collective bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolman’s Benevolent
08-08 14-  Association (OPBA).
      2008
      3-   Authorizing contract with J.K. Meurer Paving for repairs and resurfacing of the
08-12 24-  Sellman Park tennis courts.
      2008
      3-
08-13 24-  Authorizing agreement with Property Advisors LLC for consultant services.
      2008
      3-   Authorizing agreement with Humana Health Plans of Ohio for providing health
08-14 24-  insurance coverage for the employees of the city.
      2008
      3-   Authorizing agreement with Neyer, Inc. for the development of property on Camargo
08-18 24-  Road.
      2008
      4-   Authorizing contract with Trend Construction for the Shawnee Run Road
08-19 28-  reconstruction project.
      2008
      6-   Authorizing City Manager to execute Change Order No. 5 with A&M Contracting, Inc.
08-28 23-  for the Muchmore House renovation project.
      2008
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with 32 Ford for the
08-29 23-  purchase of a Ford F-250 pick- up truck under the state cooperative purchasing
      2008 program.
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Clark, Schaefer,
08-30 23-  Hackett and Co. to render accounting services to the city for the year ending
      2008 December 31, 2007.
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with North American Salt
08-32 28-  Company for the provision of rock salt through April 30, 2008.
      2008
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Hamilton County
08-34 25-  General Health District to provide health services to the city for fiscal year
      2008 2009.
      12-  Amending Ord. 07-44, authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with
08-41 8-   the City of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2008
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Miami Valley Risk Management
09-02 12-  Association (MVRMA) for property, casualty and liability insurance for FY09.
      2009
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into collective bargaining agreement with
09-03 12-  the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Ohio
      2009 Council 8.
      1-   Authorizing contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief
09-05 12-  Building Official (CBO) commencing January 1, 2009.
      2009
      1-   Authorizing agreement with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering
09-04 26-  services.
      2009
      2-9- Authorizing City Manager to enter into contract with Brandstetter Carroll, Inc.
09-06 2009 for the engineering design, construction administration and inspection services
           for Kenwood Road improvements.
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Statewide Ford Mercury for the
09-01 23-  purchase of one 2009 Ford Crown Victoria police vehicle.
      2009
      4-   Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
09-08 13-  Commissioners for municipal road funds relative to Kenwood Road improvements.
      2009
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Central Salt, LLC for
09-09 13-  the provision of rock salt through 2009- 2010 season.
      2009
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with McBride Dale Clarion for
09-07 27-  professional services for the Central Business District plan and zoning.
      2009
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Dental Care Plus Insurance Company
09-11 27-  for providing dental benefits for the employees of the city.
      2009
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Anthem, Inc. for
09-12 27-  providing health insurance coverage for the employees of the city.
      2009
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Clark, Schaefer,
09-15 22-  Hackett and Co. to render accounting services to the city for the year ending
      2009 December 31, 2008.
      7-   Approving additional compensation for the Architectural Review Officer (ARO) and
09-18 27-  authorizing a contract with David H. Ballweg.
      2009
      7-
09-19 27-  Approving an amended compensation package for the City Manager.
      2009
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with John R. Jurgensen
09-21 10-  Construction, Inc. for the Kenwood Road reconstruction, Cherokee Drive and
      2009 Nuevelle Lane paving projects.
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Hamilton County
09-20 24-  General Health District to provide health services to the city for fiscal year.
      2009
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into the local participation agreement with
09-25 24-  the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) for Safe Routes to School Funds (PID
      2009 No. 86764–Ham Madeira SRTS sidewalks).
Res.  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Madeira City
07-09 26-  Schools to amend the joint use and operation agreement for the Madeira High
      2009 School Stadium.
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to waive bidding requirements and enter into a
09-29 23-  contract with Harry Ewers and Sons Paving, Inc. for the resurfacing of Railroad
      2009 Avenue near Euclid Avenue and Camargo Road.
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the City of Indian
09-30 23-  Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2009
      12-  Appointing Robert P. Malloy as Law Director for the city and establishing
09-32 14-  compensation for the period beginning December 1, 2009 through November 30, 2011.
      2009
      12-  Appointing Diane Novakov as Clerk of Council for the city and establishing
09-33 14-  compensation for the period beginning December 1, 2009 through November 30, 2011.
      2009
      12-  Appointing Steven Soper as Treasurer for the city and establishing compensation
09-34 14-  for the period beginning December 1, 2009 through November 30, 2011.
      2009
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Brandstetter
09-35 14-  Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      2009
      12-  Authorizing contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief
09-36 14-  Building Official (CBO) commencing January 1, 2010.
      2009
      12-  Approving the appointment of the Architectural Review Officer (ARO) and
09-37 14-  authorizing a contract with David H. Ballweg.
      2009
      12-  Amending Ord. 08-41, authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with
09-40 14-  the City of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2009
      1-   Amending Ord. 09-32 appointing Robert P. Malloy as Law Director for the city and
10-01 11-  establishing compensation for the period beginning December 1, 2009 through
      2010 November 30, 2011.
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute Change Order No. 1 with Trend
10-02 11-  Construction for the Shawnee Run Road contract.
      2010
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management
10-03 11-  Association (MVRMA) for property, casualty and liability insurance for FY10.
      2010
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Central Salt, LLC for
10-06 12-  the provision of rock salt through 2010–2011 season.
      2010
      4-   Authorizing an agreement between the city and the Board of Hamilton County
10-08 26-  Commissioners relative to the rehabilitation of Kenwood Road from Euclid to south
      2010 corporation line.
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with GSF Commercial and
10-09 26-  Industrial Cleaning Services for the municipal building.
      2010
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Anthem, Inc. for
10-10 26-  providing health insurance coverage for the employees of the city.
      2010
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Met Life Insurance Company for
10-11 26-  providing dental benefits for the employees of the city.
      2010
Res.  5-
02-10 10-   
      2010
Res.  5-   Establishing an electric preferred supplier endorsement program and authorizing
03-10 10-  the City Manager to execute a memorandum of understanding with Duke Energy Retail
      2010 Sales, LLC.
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension of the county water area
10-13 28-  contract with the City of Cincinnati.
      2010
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute Change Order No. 1 for the Kenwood Road
10-14 28-  construction project.
      2010
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to waive bidding requirements and enter into a
10-17 26-  contract with Klenco Construction for right-of-way improvements on Miami Avenue
      2010 and Shawnee Run Road.
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application for State Capital
10-20 13-  Improvement Program (SCIP) funds for the Dawson Road resurfacing improvements
      2010 project.
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Hamilton County
10-19 23-  General Health District to provide health services to the city for fiscal year
      2010 2011.
      9-   Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application for State Capital
10-21 13-  Improvement Program (SCIP) funds for the Miami Avenue resurfacing improvements
      2010 project.
      9-   Implementing R.C. §§ 3735.65 through 3735.70, establishing and describing the
Res.  13-  boundaries of the Bradford Place Community Reinvestment Area in the city and
04-10 2010 designating a Housing Officer to administer the program and creating a Community
           Reinvestment Area Housing Council.
      12-  Amending Ord. 09-40, authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with
10-27 13-  the City of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2010
Res.  - -  Resolution of necessity for public improvements on and about Madeira Pines.
03-11 2011
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Brandstetter
11-01 10-  Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      2011
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a limited contract extension with the
11-02 10-  City of Indian Hill to supply water to the city and its residents.
      2011
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management
11-03 10-  Association (MVRMA) for property, casualty and liability insurance for FY11.
      2011
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to award the bid and enter into a contract with
11-04 14-  Trane Commercial for HVAC alterations to the municipal building.
      2011
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Anthem, Inc. for
11-07 28-  providing health insurance coverage for the employees of the city.
      2011
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Superior Dental Care Company for
11-08 28-  providing dental benefits for the employees of the city.
      2011
Res.  4-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute documents confirming the 50 foot right-
02-11 11-  of-way of Euclid Avenue in the vicinity of Bradford Place Subdivision.
      2011
11-09 5-9- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Central Salt, LLC for
      2011 the provision of rock salt through 2011–2012 season.
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Ohio Patrolman’s
11-11 27-  Benevolent Association (OPBA) for wages and benefits effective January 1, 2011
      2011 and ending December 31, 2013.
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Foxx and Company to
11-12 27-  render accounting services to the city for the year ending December 31, 2010.
      2011
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with J.K. Meurer, Inc. for
11-13 27-  the 2011 street repair program.
      2011
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Hamilton County
11-18 27-  General Health District to provide health services to the city for fiscal year
      2011 2012.
      7-   Approving revocable street license agreement between Ralf B. Vennemeyer, 6548
11-16 25-  Kenwood Road and the city to install certain improvements in the right-of-way
      2011 abutting Kenwood Road.
      9-   Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application for State Capital
11-21 12-  Improvement Program (SCIP) funds for the Dawson Road resurfacing improvements
      2011 project.
      9-   Approving revocable street license agreement between Dr. Thomas Ziegler, 6506
11-22 12-  Kenwood Road and the city to install certain improvements in the right-of-way
      2011 abutting Kenwood Road.
Res.  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a mutual aid agreement for law
06-11 10-  enforcement with Hamilton County.
      2011
Res.  10-  Establishing an electric preferred supplier endorsement program and authorizing
08-11 24-  the City Manager to execute a memorandum of understanding with Duke Energy Retail
      2011 Sales, LLC.
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into collective bargaining agreement with
11-25 24-  the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Ohio
      2011 Council 8.
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract for the purchase of a 2012 police
11-26 24-  vehicle under the state cooperative purchasing.
      2011
      12-  Appointing Robert P. Malloy as Law Director for the city and establishing
11-30 12-  compensation for the period beginning December 1, 2011 through November 30, 2013.
      2011
      12-  Appointing Diane Novakov as Clerk of Council for the city and establishing
11-31 12-  compensation for the period beginning December 1, 2011 through November 30, 2013.
      2011
      12-  Appointing Steven Soper as Treasurer for the city and establishing compensation
11-32 12-  for the period beginning December 1, 2011 through November 30, 2013.
      2011
      12-  Amending Ord. 10-27, authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with
11-33 12-  the City of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2011
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Republic Service, Inc.
11-35 12-  for solid waste and recycling collection services for 2012-2016.
      2011
Res.  12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a mutual aid agreement with other law
10-11 12-  enforcement agencies in Hamilton County.
      2011
12-06 - -  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into contract with the City of Indian Hill
      2012 to supply water to the city and its residents.
12-13 - -  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with J.K. Meurer for the
      2012 2012 street repair program.
12-01 1-9- Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management
      2012 Association (MVRMA) for property, casualty and liability insurance for FY11.
12-02 1-9- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Brandstetter
      2012 Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
12-03 1-9- Approving the appointment of the Architectural Review Officer (ARO) and
      2012 authorizing a contract with David H. Ballweg.
12-04 1-9- Authorizing contract with William Fiedler for professional services as the Chief
      2012 Building Official (CBO) commencing January 1, 2012.
12-05 1-9- Authorizing the City Manager to execute Change Order No. 1 for the 2011 street
      2012 repair program for J.K. Meurer paving company.
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a memorandum of understanding with the
12-07 13-  Ohio Police Benevolent Association to amend the collective bargaining agreement
      2012 for the City Police Department regarding 12 hour shifts.
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Parsons to provide an
12-08 13-  environmental study for the safe routes to school sidewalk project on Thomas
      2012 Drive and Euclid Avenue.
Res.  2-   Authorizing the execution of the settlement, release of claims and escrow
02-12 27-  agreement with Madeira Place, LLC.
      2012
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Humana, Inc. for
12-11 27-  providing health and dental insurance coverage for the employees of the city.
      2012
Res.  4-   Approving the update of the solid waste management plan of the Hamilton County
05-12 23-  Solid Waste Management District.
      2012
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to renew the contract with GSF Commercial and
12-16 14-  Industrial Cleaning Services for the municipal building.
      2012
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute Change Order No. 1 with J.K. Meurer for
12-17 14-  the 2012 street paving program.
      2012
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Greve Chrysler Jeep Dodge, Inc. for
12-19 14-  the purchase of a 2012 police vehicle under the state cooperative purchasing.
      2012
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Berding Survey
12-20 25-  Services, Inc. for a right-of-way survey for the safe routes to school project on
      2012 Thomas Drive and Euclid Avenue.
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute Change Order No. 2 with J.K. Meurer for
12-21 23-  the 2012 street paving program.
      2012
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Hamilton County
12-22 27-  General Health District to provide health services to the city for fiscal year
      2012 2013.
Res.  9-   Establishing charges for use of ambulance or emergency medical services for the
07-12 24-  city and Indian Hill Joint Fire District.
      2012
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with the Miami Valley Risk Management
13-01 14-  Association (MVRMA) for property, casualty and liability insurance for fiscal
      2013 year 2013.
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Foxx & Company to
13-02 14-  render accounting services to the city for the year ending December 31, 2012.
      2013
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Brandstetter
13-04 14-  Carroll, Inc. for consulting engineering services.
      2013
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with William Fiedler for
13-05 14-  professional services as the Chief Building Official (CBO) commencing January 1,
      2013 2013.
      1-   Amending Ord. 11-33, authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with
13-06 14-  the City of the Village of Indian Hill and the Madeira/Indian Hill Joint Fire
      2013 District.
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a joint economic development zone
13-03 28-  agreement with the Sycamore Township Trustee for the Kenwood-East and Kenwood-
      2013 West JEDZ.
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Ford Development Group
13-08 28-  for the repair of the public storm water sewer on Osceola Drive.
      2013
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Jeff Wyler Chevrolet for the
13-14 25-  purchase of a 2013 police vehicle under the state cooperative purchasing.
      2013
      3-   Approving an agreement for the exclusive rights to negotiate with PMABC, LLC and
13-15 25-  authorizing and directing the City Manager to execute such agreement (Muchmore
      2013 Historical Area).
Res.  9-9- Authorizing execution of service agreement with iWorq for software applications
47-24 2024 to support municipal operations.
          
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./ Page
Res.  No./ Description
No.   Date
124   165  Permit School Board pipeline for water to school.
138   177  Permit School Board pipeline for water.
502   513  Easement deed R.S. Fogley Mar Del Subdivision.
      9-
1103  11-  Easement to Carl F. and Zoe E. Thorton for sewer line.
      1972
      9-   Easements for bridge work on property of Walter H. Becker and Carrol Sue
1418  10-  Becker.
      1979
      1-
1577  18-  Easement to CG&E.
      1982
86-24 7-7- Appropriating parts of Lots 15 and 16 of Moore and Hosbrook’s Subdivision for
      1986 stormwater sewer easement.
87-40 9-8- Appropriating certain property located in city and being parts of Section 1,
      1987 Town 4, Entire Range 1, Miami Purchase for stormwater easement.
      6-   Parking easement for businesses on Miami Avenue between Railroad and Laurel
96-47 24-  Avenues.
      1997
Res.  5-   Accepting certain easement for utilities and pedestrian passway in partial
03-08 27-  consideration for the vacation of a portion of Centre Street.
      2008
          
Ord./ Page
Res.  No./ Description
No.   Date
      11-  Authorizing and directing execution of parking easement agreement between the
24-11 4-   city and W Four LLC in connection with W Four LLC’s purchase of 7014 Miami
      2024 Avenue from the Community Improvement Corporation of Greater Cincinnati, Inc.
          
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAMES
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
39            60            Naming Lea Street, Mae Street, Esther Lane, Charles
                            Street and Goff Terrace.
226           337           Changing part of Lea Street, Morrison Street and
                            Mae Street to Morrison Avenue.
325           118           Changing Hudson Avenue to Shawnee Run.
                            Changing part of Morrison Avenue, Mae Street, and
360           217           Lea Street to Morrison Place, and Osler Court to
                            Juler Avenue.
Res. 319      850           Changing Verman-Sanoma Streets to Iuka Avenue.
Res. 322      882           Changing Sanoma Avenue to Sanoma Drive and part of
                            Iuka Avenue to Sanoma Avenue.
                           
 
TABLE VII: VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
 
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
85            116           Vacation 21 feet north of Osler Court.
1057          7-12-1971     Vacation of Charles Street from Camargo Road to B.
                            & O. Railroad tracks.
                            Vacation and conveyance of Highland Avenue and a
04-06         2-9-2004      portion of Marvin Avenue to the adjoining property
                            owner (Madeira Board of Education).
08-21         5-27-2008     Vacation of a portion of Centre Street.
                           
 
TABLE VIII: ZONING
Ord./Res. No. Page No./Date Description
Ord./ Page
Res.  No./ Description
No.   Date
      11-  Rezoning lots 112, 113, 124, 125, 131 and 238, all south of the Chessie Railroad,
1636  7-   from a Manufacturing Zone to a Business “A” Zone.
      1983
87-21 5-4- Rezoning the property on 7801 Laurel Avenue from “BO” Business Office to “BA”
      1987 Business Retail.
      2-   Revising and adopting zoning change from Residence “AAA” and “A” to Residence “AA”
06-55 26-  for property located at 6101 Fulsher Lane.
      2007
      5-   Amending the zoning map to replace the Business “O” and Business “B” Zones with the
12-12 14-  Business “A” Zone.
      2012
      10-  Recognizing the importance of preserving historical landmarks while encouraging mixed
12-27 22-  use in the same vicinity that enhances economic vitality in segment of the city that
      2012 is not only compelling but is compatible with uses in the immediate area (Muchmore
           Historical Area).
13-22 - -  Amending the zoning map to change 7361, 7381, 7401 Shawnee Run Road; and 7337 Camargo
           Road from Residence “AA” Single-Family to Residence “A” Single-Family.
           Amending the zoning map to change five acres from Manufacturing District with a
           Central Business District (CBD) Overlay to the Manufacturing and Recreation “MR” zone
      10-  (no CBD Overlay) located at the following addresses and parcel numbers: 6973 Morrison
13-24 14-  Place; 6730 Camargo Road; 6944 Morrison Place; 7620 Camargo Road; 6920 Morrison
      2013 Place; 7608 Camargo Road; 6924 Morrison Place; 7650 Camargo Road (Parcel #s: 552-3-
           258, 525-3-271, 525-3-273, 525-3-274, 525-3-275, 525-3-276, 525-3-441, 525-3-443,
           525-3-445, 525-3- 450, 525-3-462)
      1-   Zoning map amendment adjusting boundary lines of existing zoning along Euclid Avenue
19-07 22-  (in the TROD area) and on Laurel Avenue (in the BA/RSB area); 7825, 7827 and 7845
      2020 Euclid Avenue and 7832, 7838 and 7842 Laurel Avenue.
      11-  Approving a zoning map amendment for 7832, 7838 and 7842 Laurel Avenue from Business
20-10 23-  A/Residential Scale Business District to Residence B/ Transitional Residential
      2020 Overlay District #1.
      6-   Approving a zoning map amendment for Lot Number 8 Treetop Lane from Residence B
21-02 28-  District to Residence A District.
      2021
      10-  Adopting new zoning map to reflect district name changes as adopted with Ord. 21-01
21-05 25-  amending the Madeira Zoning Code of Ordinances.
      2021
          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                             Code Section
1.01                                     10.01
1.02                                     10.02
1.05                                     10.02
1.15                                     10.03
1.23                                     10.05
124.011                                  Charter Art. VIII, § 2
128.01(A)                                136.18
128.96(F) - (H)                          136.18
128.99(A), (B)                           136.18
1.42                                     10.03
1.43                                     10.03
1.44                                     10.02
1.45                                     10.03
1.46                                     10.03
1.47                                     10.18
1.48                                     10.18
1.49                                     10.18
1.50                                     10.07
1.51                                     10.06
1.52                                     10.06
1.54                                     10.04
1.55                                     10.05
1.56                                     10.05
1.57                                     10.04
1.58                                     10.04
1.59                                     10.02
701.01                                   10.02
705.92                                   Charter Art. XII, § 4
711.001(B)                               151.001
715.67                                   130.99
901.51                                   131.22
901.99(A)                                131.22
935.01                                   90.07
935.16                                   90.05
1349.17                                  131.35
1349.99(A)                               131.35
1533.171(A)                              131.39;
                                         135.06
1533.99(C)                               131.39;
                                         135.06
2744.01                                  36.01
2744.02                                  36.02
2744.03                                  36.03
2744.04                                  36.04
2744.06                                  36.05
2744.07                                  36.06
2744.08                                  36.07
2744.082                                 36.07
2744.09                                  36.08
2901.01                                  130.02
2901.02                                  130.03
2901.03                                  130.04
2901.04                                  130.05
2901.05                                  130.14
2901.06                                  130.15
2901.08                                  130.16
2901.09                                  130.21
2901.11                                  130.17
2901.13                                  130.06
2901.21                                  130.07
2901.22                                  130.08
2901.23                                  130.09
2901.24                                  130.10
2903.05                                  135.02
2903.06                                  135.03
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G) 135.03
2903.09                                  135.01
2903.10                                  135.25
2903.13                                  135.04
2903.14                                  135.05
2903.16                                  135.25
2903.21                                  135.07
2903.211                                 135.09
2903.216                                 135.14
2903.22                                  135.08
2903.31                                  135.23
2903.311(B), (C)                         135.23
2903.33                                  135.25
2903.34                                  135.25
2903.341                                 135.26
2903.35                                  135.26
2903.36                                  135.26
2905.03                                  135.10
2905.05                                  135.11
2905.12                                  135.12
2907.01                                  133.01
2907.04                                  133.02
2907.06                                  133.03
2907.071                                 133.22
2907.08                                  133.05
2907.09                                  133.04
2907.10                                  133.06
2907.23                                  133.07
2907.231                                 133.07
2907.24                                  133.07
2907.241                                 133.07
2907.25                                  133.09
2907.26                                  133.14
2907.31                                  133.10
2907.311                                 133.11
2907.33                                  133.12
2907.35                                  133.10
2907.36                                  133.15
2907.37                                  133.16
2907.38                                  133.17
2907.39                                  133.18
2907.40                                  133.19
2909.01                                  131.01
2909.03                                  131.02
2909.06                                  131.03
2909.07                                  131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                         131.26
2909.09                                  131.03
2909.10                                  131.37
2909.101                                 131.37
2909.11(B) - (D)                         131.05
2909.31                                  136.18
2911.21                                  131.06
2911.211                                 131.07
2911.23                                  131.06
2911.32                                  131.08
2913.01                                  131.01
2913.02                                  131.09
2913.03                                  131.10
2913.04                                  131.11
2913.07                                  131.27
2913.11                                  131.12
2913.21                                  131.13
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                       131.32
2913.32                                  131.33
2913.33                                  131.14
2913.34                                  131.34
2913.40                                  131.30
2913.401                                 131.30
2913.41                                  131.15
2913.42                                  131.16
2913.43                                  131.17
2913.44                                  132.11
2913.441                                 132.12
2913.45                                  131.18
2913.47                                  131.30
2913.48                                  131.30
2913.51                                  131.19
2913.61(B) - (E)                         131.20
2913.71                                  131.21
2913.72                                  131.31
2913.73                                  131.31
2915.01                                  134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                    134.02
2915.03                                  134.03
2915.04                                  134.04
2915.05                                  134.05
2915.06                                  134.14
2915.061                                 134.14
2915.09                                  134.06
2915.091                                 134.10
2915.092                                 134.11
2915.093                                 134.12
2915.094                                 134.13
2915.10                                  134.07
2915.11                                  134.08
2915.12                                  134.09
2915.13                                  134.12
2915.14                                  134.15
2917.01                                  132.21
2917.03                                  132.01
2917.031                                 132.01
2917.04                                  132.02
2917.05                                  132.03
2917.11                                  132.04
2917.12                                  132.05
2917.13                                  132.06
2917.21                                  132.07
2917.211                                 133.21
2917.31                                  132.08
2917.32                                  132.09
2917.40                                  132.22
2917.41                                  132.23
2919.01                                  135.13
2919.21                                  135.16
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                    135.17
2919.224                                 135.33
2919.23                                  135.18
2919.231                                 135.19
2919.24                                  135.24
2919.25                                  135.22
2919.27                                  135.27
2921.01                                  136.01
2921.04                                  136.22
2921.13                                  136.02
2921.14                                  136.20
2921.15                                  136.24
2921.21                                  136.03
2921.22                                  136.04
2921.23                                  136.05
2921.24                                  136.21
2921.25                                  136.21
2921.29                                  136.18
2921.31                                  136.06
2921.32                                  136.07
2921.321                                 136.17
2921.33                                  136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)              70.02
2921.36                                  136.13
2921.37                                  136.13
2921.42                                  136.09
2921.43                                  136.10
2921.44                                  136.11
2921.45                                  136.12
2921.51                                  132.13
2921.52(A) - (D)                         136.23
2923.02                                  130.11
2923.03                                  130.12
2923.11                                  137.01
2923.12                                  137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)                        137.09
2923.1212                                137.09
2923.122(C) - (G)                        137.10
2923.126                                 137.09
2923.131                                 137.11
2923.15                                  137.03
2923.16                                  137.04
2923.162                                 137.14
2923.18                                  137.15
2923.19                                  137.06
2923.20                                  137.07
2923.201                                 137.12
2923.211                                 137.08
2923.24                                  137.13
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)             138.06
2925.11                                  138.03
2925.12                                  138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                    138.05
2925.14                                  138.14
2925.141                                 138.14
2925.31                                  138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)          138.09
2925.33                                  138.09
2925.34                                  138.20
2925.36(A) - (D), (F)                    138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                          138.15
2925.50                                  138.11
2925.51                                  138.10
2925.511                                 138.10
2925.55                                  138.17
2925.56                                  138.17
2925.57                                  138.17
2925.58                                  138.17
2925.62                                  138.21
2927.01                                  139.01
2927.02                                  135.29
2927.021                                 135.29
2927.022                                 135.29
2927.023                                 135.29
2927.024                                 135.29
2927.03                                  139.16
2927.11                                  131.38
2927.12                                  139.17
2927.15                                  135.32
2927.17                                  133.20
2927.27                                  130.20
2929.21                                  130.99
2929.22                                  130.18
2929.23                                  133.99
2929.24                                  130.99
2929.25                                  130.99
2929.26                                  130.99
2929.27                                  130.99
2929.28                                  130.99
2929.31                                  130.99
2929.41                                  130.19
2935.041                                 131.29
2935.11                                  136.15
2935.28                                  70.10
2935.36(E)                               130.02
2981.07                                  131.28
2981.11                                  130.13
2981.12                                  130.13
2981.13(A)                               130.13
3513.261                                 Charter Art. XIII, § 2;
3701.81                                  135.31
3701.82                                  139.01
3701.99(B)                               139.01
3701.99(C)                               135.31
3715.05                                  138.17
3715.06                                  138.17
3716.11                                  135.28
3716.99(C)                               135.28
3719.08(A), (E)                          138.13
3719.172(A), (B)                         138.19
3719.19                                  138.11
3719.30                                  139.06
3719.99(C)                               138.13
3719.99(E)                               138.19
3719.99(F)                               139.06
3767.13                                  139.05
3767.201                                 70.12
3767.29                                  139.03
3767.99(B)                               139.03
3767.99(C)                               139.05
3767.99(D)                               70.12
3773.06                                  137.14
3773.99(A)                               137.14
3780.36                                  138.02;
                                         138.22
3780.99                                  138.02;
                                         138.22
3781.55                                  133.04
3791.031                                 135.30
4301.61                                  132.48
4301.611                                 132.49
4301.62                                  132.38
4301.63                                  132.37
4301.633                                 132.43
4301.634                                 132.43
4301.637                                 132.46
4301.639(A), (C)                         132.47
4301.65                                  132.42
4301.99(A)                               132.38;
                                         132.42
4301.99(C)                               132.43
4301.99(E)                               132.37
4301.99(F)                               132.43
4301.99(J)                               132.42
4501.01(LL)                              70.01
4501.01(TT)                              72.060
4503.05                                  71.03
4503.11(A)                               71.01
4503.11(D)                               71.01
4503.111(A), (C)                         71.01
4503.111(B)                              71.01
4503.12(A)                               71.01
4503.12(D)                               71.01
4503.21(A)                               71.01
4503.21(B), (C)                          71.01
4503.236                                 71.04
4505.18                                  71.05
4506.01                                  71.60
4506.011                                 71.61
4506.03(A) - (C)                         71.63
4506.03(D)                               71.63
4506.04(A), (B)                          71.62
4506.04(C)                               71.62
4506.05(A) - (C)                         71.63
4506.05(D)                               71.63
4506.10(A), (E)                          71.64
4506.12(I)                               71.62
4506.12(J)                               71.62
4506.15(A)                               71.65
4506.15(B)                               71.65
4506.15(C)                               71.65
4506.17(H)                               71.65
4506.17(N)                               71.65
4506.19                                  71.66
4506.20                                  71.67
4506.23                                  71.65
4506.99                                  71.99
4507.02(A)                               71.02
4507.03                                  71.02
4507.04                                  71.02
4507.05(F)                               71.21
4507.05(I)                               71.21
4507.071(B) - (I)                        71.21
4507.071(J)                              71.21
4507.213                                 71.02
4507.30                                  71.20
4507.31(A)                               71.21
4507.31(B)                               71.21
4507.321                                 71.22
4507.35                                  71.25
4507.36                                  71.26
4507.99                                  71.99
4509.102                                 136.02
4509.74                                  73.068
4510.037(J)                              71.27
                                         71.27;
4510.04                                  71.29;
                                         71.30;
                                         71.31
4510.05                                  71.24
4510.11                                  71.27
4510.111                                 71.27
4510.12                                  71.28
4510.14                                  71.29
4510.15                                  71.24
4510.16                                  71.30
4510.21                                  71.31
4510.44                                  73.005
4511.01                                  70.01
4511.03                                  70.03
4511.031                                 70.32
4511.04                                  70.04
4511.041                                 70.04
4511.042                                 70.04
4511.05                                  70.05
4511.051                                 70.06
4511.08                                  70.07
4511.12(A)                               70.25
4511.12(B)                               70.25
4511.121(A) - (C), (E)                   70.25
4511.121(D)                              70.25
4511.13                                  70.26
4511.131                                 70.27
4511.132                                 70.34
4511.14                                  70.28
4511.16                                  70.29
4511.17                                  70.30
4511.18                                  70.33
4511.181                                 73.001
4511.19(A) - (M)                         73.001
4511.191(A)                              73.002
4511.191(D)                              73.003
4511.192                                 73.002
4511.194                                 73.004
4511.20                                  73.020
4511.201                                 73.021
4511.202                                 73.022
4511.203                                 71.23
4511.204                                 72.122
4511.205                                 72.123
4511.21(A) - (G)                         73.035
4511.21(O)                               73.035
4511.21(P)                               73.035
4511.211(A) - (E)                        73.035
4511.211(F)                              73.035
4511.213(A) - (C)                        72.110
4511.213(D)                              72.110
4511.213(E)                              72.110
4511.214                                 73.052
4511.215                                 73.052
4511.216                                 73.052
4511.22                                  73.036
4511.23                                  73.039
4511.24                                  73.037
4511.25                                  72.001
4511.251                                 73.038
4511.26                                  72.003
4511.27                                  72.004
4511.28                                  72.005
4511.29                                  72.006
4511.30                                  72.007
4511.31                                  72.008
4511.32                                  72.009
4511.33                                  72.010
4511.34                                  72.011
4511.35                                  72.012
4511.36                                  72.013
4511.37                                  72.014
4511.38                                  72.015
4511.39                                  72.016
4511.40                                  72.017
4511.41                                  72.030
4511.42                                  72.031
4511.43                                  72.032
4511.431(A)                              72.033
4511.431(B)                              72.033
4511.432(D)                              72.033
4511.44                                  72.034
4511.441                                 72.035
4511.45                                  72.036
4511.451                                 72.037
4511.452                                 72.038
4511.454                                 72.036
4511.46                                  72.039
4511.47                                  72.040
4511.48                                  72.041
4511.481                                 72.042
4511.49                                  72.055
4511.491                                 72.059
4511.50                                  72.056
4511.51                                  72.057
4511.511                                 72.058
4511.512                                 72.060
4511.513                                 72.061
4511.514                                 72.062
4511.52                                  75.01
4511.521                                 75.02
4511.522                                 75.08
4511.53                                  75.03
4511.54                                  75.04
4511.55                                  75.05
4511.56                                  75.06
4511.60                                  72.002
4511.61                                  72.075
4511.62                                  72.076
4511.63                                  72.077
4511.64                                  72.078
4511.65                                  72.090
4511.66                                  76.01
4511.661                                 76.02
4511.67                                  76.03
4511.68                                  76.04
4511.68(A)                               76.04
4511.681                                 76.10
4511.69                                  76.05
4511.70                                  72.105
4511.701                                 72.106
4511.71(A)                               72.107
4511.71(B)                               72.107
4511.711(A)                              72.108
4511.711(B)                              72.108
4511.712                                 72.109
4511.713(A)                              72.108
4511.713(B)                              72.108
4511.714(A), (B)                         72.107
4511.714(C)                              72.107
4511.714(D)                              72.107
4511.72(A)                               72.110
4511.72(B)                               72.110
4511.73                                  72.111
4511.74(A), (B)                          72.111
4511.74(C)                               72.111
4511.75                                  72.135
4511.751                                 72.136
4511.76(C), (H), (I)                     72.137
4511.761                                 72.138
4511.762                                 72.139
4511.763                                 72.140
4511.764                                 72.141
4511.77                                  72.142
4511.771                                 72.143
4511.772                                 72.144
4511.79                                  73.002
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)               72.114
4511.82(A), (B), (D)                     72.111;
                                         72.115
4511.82(C)                               72.112;
                                         72.115
4511.84                                  72.116
4511.85                                  72.118
4513.02(A), (H)                          74.01
4513.021                                 74.02
4513.03                                  74.03
4513.04                                  74.04
4513.05                                  74.05
4513.06                                  74.06
4513.07                                  74.07
4513.071                                 74.08
4513.08                                  74.09
4513.09                                  74.10
4513.10                                  74.11
4513.11                                  74.12
4513.111                                 74.12
4513.112                                 74.12
4513.113                                 74.12
4513.114                                 74.12
4513.115                                 74.12
4513.12                                  74.13
4513.13                                  74.14
4513.14                                  74.15
4513.15                                  74.16
4513.16                                  74.17
4513.17                                  74.18
4513.17(F)                               74.18
4513.171                                 74.18
4513.171(B)                              74.18
4513.18                                  74.19
4513.181                                 74.20
4513.182                                 74.21
4513.19                                  74.22
4513.20                                  74.23
4513.201                                 74.24
4513.202                                 74.25
4513.21                                  74.26
4513.22                                  74.27
4513.23                                  74.28
4513.24                                  74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)                        74.31
4513.241(K)                              74.31
4513.25                                  74.30
4513.26                                  74.31
4513.261                                 74.32
4513.262                                 74.33
4513.263                                 74.38
4513.27                                  74.34
4513.28                                  74.35
4513.29                                  74.36
4513.30                                  74.55
4513.31                                  74.56
4513.32                                  74.57
4513.33                                  74.60
4513.34                                  74.59
4513.36                                  73.050
4513.361                                 73.051
4513.50                                  74.39
4513.51(A), (B)                          74.39
4513.51(D)                               74.39
4513.66                                  70.13
4513.68                                  70.13
                                         74.11;
                                         74.21;
                                         74.23;
                                         74.24;
                                         74.25;
                                         74.30;
4513.99                                  74.31;
                                         74.34;
                                         74.36;
                                         74.55;
                                         74.56;
                                         74.57;
                                         74.59
4519.01                                  75.20
4519.02                                  75.29
4519.20(A), (B)                          75.21
4519.20(C)                               75.21
4519.22(A)                               75.21
4519.22(B)                               75.21
4519.40                                  75.22
4519.401                                 73.052
4519.41                                  75.23
4519.44                                  75.24
4519.45                                  75.25
4519.46                                  75.26
4519.47                                  75.27
4519.48                                  75.28
4519.66                                  75.30
4549.02                                  73.065
4549.021                                 73.066
4549.03                                  73.067
4549.05                                  73.080
4549.08                                  73.081
4549.081(B)                              70.25
4549.081(C)                              70.25
4549.10                                  73.082
4549.11(A)                               73.083
4549.11(B)                               73.083
4549.12(A)                               73.084
4549.12(B)                               73.084
4549.18                                  71.06
4549.20                                  74.40
4731.481                                 138.16
4731.99(F)                               138.16
4734.161                                 138.16
4734.99(B)                               138.16
4933.18                                  131.36
4933.19                                  131.36
4933.22                                  131.24
5577.02                                  74.61
5577.03                                  74.58
5577.04                                  74.58
5577.041                                 74.58
5577.042                                 74.66
5577.043                                 74.66
5577.044                                 74.66
5577.045                                 74.66
5577.05                                  74.62
5577.06                                  74.62
5577.10                                  74.63
5577.11                                  74.64
5577.12                                  74.65
5577.15                                  74.57
5577.99(A)                               74.61
5577.99(C)                               74.58;
                                         74.62
5577.99(D)                               74.63
5577.99(E)                               74.64
5589.08                                  72.119
5589.081                                 74.37
5589.12                                  131.11
                                         72.119;
5589.99(B)                               74.37;
                                         131.11
                                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
30.03      30.03
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.03      31.03
31.04      31.04
31.06      31.05
31.07      31.06
31.08      31.07
31.20      31.20
31.21      31.21
31.22      31.22
31.23      31.23
31.24      31.24
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.03      32.03
32.04      32.04
32.05      32.05
32.06      32.06
32.07      32.07
32.08      32.08
32.09      32.09
32.20      32.20
33.01      33.01
33.02      33.02
33.03      33.03
33.04      33.04
33.05      33.05
33.06      33.06
33.20      33.20
33.21      33.21
33.22      33.22
33.23      33.23
33.35      33.35
33.36      33.36
33.37      33.37
33.50      33.50
33.51      33.51
33.52      33.52
34.01      34.01
35.01      35.01
35.02      35.02
35.03      35.03
35.04      35.04
35.05      35.05
36.01      36.01
36.02      36.02
36.03      36.03
36.04      36.04
36.05      36.05
36.06      36.06
36.07      36.07
36.08      36.08
37.01      37.01
37.02      37.02
37.03      37.03
37.04      37.04
37.05      37.05
37.06      37.06
38.01      38.01
38.15      38.15
38.16      38.16
38.17      38.17
38.18      38.18
38.19      38.19
38.20      38.20
38.35      38.35
38.36      38.36
38.37      38.37
50.01      50.01
50.02      50.02
51.01      51.01
51.02      51.02
51.03      51.03
51.99      51.99
52.01      52.01
52.02      52.02
52.03      52.03
52.04      52.04
52.05      52.05
52.06      52.06
52.07      52.07
52.08      52.08
52.09      52.09
52.10      52.10
52.11      52.11
52.12      52.12
52.13      52.13
52.14      52.14
52.15      52.15
52.16      52.16
52.17      52.17
52.18      52.18
52.19      52.19
52.20      52.20
52.21      52.21
52.22      52.22
52.23      52.23
52.24      52.24
52.25      52.25
52.26      52.26
52.27      52.27
52.28      52.28
52.29      52.29
52.30      52.30
52.31      52.31
52.32      52.32
52.99      52.99
53.01      53.01
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.03      70.03
70.04      70.04
70.05      70.05
70.06      70.06
70.07      70.07
70.08      70.08
70.09      70.09
70.10      70.10
70.11      70.11
70.12      70.12
70.13      70.13
70.25      70.25
70.26      70.26
70.27      70.27
70.28      70.28
70.29      70.29
70.30      70.30
70.31      70.31
70.32      70.32
70.34      70.33
70.35      70.34
70.99      70.99
71.01      71.01
71.02      71.02
71.03      71.03
71.04      71.04
71.05      71.05
71.06      71.06
71.20      71.20
71.21      71.21
71.22      71.22
71.23      71.23
71.24      71.24
71.25      71.25
71.26      71.26
71.27      71.27
71.28      71.28
71.29      71.29
71.30      71.30
71.31      71.31
71.45      71.45
71.46      71.46
71.47      71.47
71.48      71.48
71.60      71.60
71.61      71.61
71.62      71.62
71.63      71.63
71.64      71.64
71.65      71.65
71.66      71.66
71.67      71.67
71.99      71.99
72.01      72.001
72.02      72.002
72.03      72.003
72.04      72.004
72.05      72.005
72.06      72.006
72.07      72.007
72.08      72.008
72.09      72.009
72.10      72.010
72.11      72.011
72.12      72.012
72.13      72.013
72.14      72.014
72.15      72.015
72.16      72.016
72.17      72.017
72.18      72.018
72.20      72.030
72.21      72.031
72.22      72.032
72.23      72.033
72.24      72.034
72.25      72.035
72.26      72.036
72.27      72.037
72.28      72.038
72.29      72.039
72.30      72.040
72.31      72.041
72.32      72.042
72.33      72.043
72.35      72.055
72.36      72.056
72.37      72.057
72.38      72.058
72.39      72.059
72.40      72.060
72.45      72.075
72.46      72.076
72.47      72.077
72.48      72.078
72.50      72.090
72.55      72.105
72.56      72.106
72.57      72.107
72.58      72.108
72.59      72.109
72.60      72.110
72.61      72.111
72.62      72.112
72.63      72.113
72.64      72.114
72.64.1    72.115
72.64.2    72.116
72.64.3    72.117
72.64.4    72.118
72.64.5    72.119
72.64.6    72.120
72.64.7    72.121
72.64.8    72.122
72.64.9    72.123
72.65      72.135
72.65.1    72.136
72.66      72.137
72.67      72.138
72.68      72.139
72.69      72.140
72.70      72.141
72.71      72.142
72.72      72.143
72.73      72.144
73.01      73.001
73.02      73.002
73.03      73.003
73.04      73.004
73.04.1    73.005
73.05      73.020
73.06      73.021
73.07      73.022
73.10      73.035
73.11      73.036
73.12      73.037
73.13      73.038
73.14      73.039
73.15      73.050
73.16      73.051
73.17      73.052
73.20      73.065
73.21      73.066
73.22      73.067
73.23      73.068
73.26      73.080
73.27      73.081
73.28      73.082
73.29      73.083
73.30      73.084
74.01      74.01
74.02      74.02
74.03      74.03
74.04      74.04
74.05      74.05
74.06      74.06
74.07      74.07
74.08      74.08
74.09      74.09
74.10      74.10
74.11      74.11
74.12      74.12
74.13      74.13
74.14      74.14
74.15      74.15
74.16      74.16
74.17      74.17
74.18      74.18
74.19      74.19
74.20      74.20
74.21      74.21
74.22      74.22
74.23      74.23
74.24      74.24
74.25      74.25
74.26      74.26
74.27      74.27
74.28      74.28
74.29      74.29
74.30      74.30
74.31      74.31
74.32      74.32
74.33      74.33
74.34      74.34
74.35      74.35
74.36      74.36
74.37      74.37
74.38      74.38
74.39      74.39
74.40      74.40
74.55      74.55
74.56      74.56
74.57      74.57
74.58      74.58
74.59      74.59
74.60      74.60
74.61      74.61
74.62      74.62
74.63      74.63
74.64      74.64
74.65      74.65
74.66      74.66
75.01      75.01
75.02      75.02
75.03      75.03
75.04      75.04
75.05      75.05
75.06      75.06
75.07      75.07
75.20      75.20
75.21      75.21
75.22      75.22
75.23      75.23
75.24      75.24
75.25      75.25
75.26      75.26
75.27      75.27
75.28      75.28
75.29      75.29
75.30      75.30
76.01      76.01
76.02      76.02
76.03      76.03
76.04      76.04
76.05      76.05
76.06      76.06
76.07      76.07
76.08      76.08
76.09      76.09
76.10      76.10
76.11      76.11
76.12      76.12
76.13      76.13
76.14      76.14
76.15      76.15
76.16      76.16
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.99      90.99
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.03      91.03
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.05
91.06      91.06
91.07      91.07
91.30      91.20
91.31      91.21
91.32      91.22
91.50      91.35
91.99      91.99
92.01      92.01
92.02      92.02
92.03      92.03
92.15      92.15
92.16      92.16
92.17      92.17
92.18      92.18
92.19      92.19
92.20      92.20
92.21      92.21
92.22      92.22
92.23      92.23
92.24      92.24
92.25      92.25
92.26      92.26
92.27      92.27
92.28      92.28
92.29      92.29
92.30      92.30
92.31      92.31
92.32      92.32
92.33      92.33
92.34      92.34
92.45      92.45
92.46      92.46
92.47      92.47
92.48      92.48
92.49      92.49
92.99      92.99
93.01      93.001
93.02      93.002
93.03      93.003
93.04      93.004
93.05      93.005
93.06      93.006
93.07      93.007
93.20      93.020
93.21      93.021
93.22      93.022
93.35      93.035
93.36      93.036
93.37      93.037
93.38      93.038
93.39      93.039
93.40      93.040
93.41      93.041
93.42      93.042
93.43      93.043
93.44      93.044
93.45      93.045
93.46      93.046
93.47      93.047
93.48      93.048
93.49      93.049
93.50      93.050
93.51      93.051
93.52      93.052
93.53      93.053
93.54      93.054
93.55      93.055
93.70      93.070
93.71      93.071
93.72      93.072
93.85      93.085
93.99      93.999
94.01      94.01
94.02      94.02
94.03      94.03
94.04      94.04
94.99      94.99
95.01      95.01
95.02      95.02
95.03      95.03
95.04      95.04
95.99      95.99
96.01      96.01
96.02      96.02
96.03      96.03
96.15      96.15
96.16      96.16
96.17      96.17
96.99      96.99
97.01      97.02
97.12      97.03
110.01     110.01
110.02     110.02
110.03     110.03
110.04     110.04
110.05     110.05
110.06     110.06
110.07     110.07
110.08     110.08
110.09     110.09
110.10     110.10
110.11     110.11
110.12     110.12
110.13     110.13
110.25     110.25
110.26     110.26
110.27     110.27
110.28     110.28
110.99     110.99
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.99     111.99
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
112.03     112.03
112.04     112.04
112.15     112.15
112.16     112.16
112.99     112.99
113.01     113.01
113.02     113.02
113.03     113.03
113.04     113.04
113.05     113.05
113.99     113.99
115.01     114.01
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02
130.03     130.03
130.04     130.04
130.05     130.05
130.06     130.06
130.07     130.07
130.08     130.08
130.09     130.09
130.10     130.10
130.11     130.11
130.12     130.12
130.13     130.13
130.14     130.14
130.15     130.15
130.16     130.16
130.17     130.17
130.18     130.18
130.19     130.19
130.20     130.20
130.21     130.21
130.99     130.99
131.01     131.01
131.02     131.02
131.03     131.03
131.04     131.04
131.05     131.05
131.06     131.06
131.07     131.07
131.08     131.08
131.09     131.09
131.10     131.10
131.11     131.11
131.12     131.12
131.13     131.13
131.14     131.14
131.15     131.15
131.16     131.16
131.17     131.17
131.18     131.18
131.19     131.19
131.20     131.20
131.21     131.21
131.22     131.22
131.23     131.23
131.24     131.24
131.25     131.25
131.26     131.26
131.27     131.27
131.28     131.28
131.29     131.29
131.30     131.30
131.31     131.31
131.32     131.32
131.33     131.33
131.34     131.34
131.35     131.35
131.36     131.36
132.01     132.01
132.02     132.02
132.03     132.03
132.04     132.04
132.05     132.05
132.06     132.06
132.07     132.07
132.08     132.08
132.09     132.09
132.10     132.10
132.11     132.11
132.12     132.12
132.13     132.13
132.14     132.14
132.15     132.15
132.16     132.16
132.17     132.17
132.18     132.18
132.19     132.19
132.20     132.20
132.21     132.21
132.22     132.22
132.23     132.23
132.35     132.35
132.36     132.36
132.37     132.37
132.38     132.38
132.39     132.39
132.40     132.40
132.41     132.41
132.42     132.42
132.43     132.43
132.44     132.44
132.45     132.45
132.46     132.46
132.47     132.47
132.48     132.48
132.49     132.49
133.01     133.01
133.02     133.02
133.03     133.03
133.04     133.04
133.05     133.05
133.06     133.06
133.07     133.07
133.08     133.08
133.09     133.09
133.10     133.10
133.11     133.11
133.12     133.12
133.13     133.13
133.14     133.14
133.15     133.15
133.16     133.16
133.17     133.17
133.18     133.18
133.19     133.19
133.99     133.99
134.01     134.01
134.02     134.02
134.03     134.03
134.04     134.04
134.05     134.05
134.06     134.06
134.07     134.07
134.08     134.08
134.09     134.09
134.10     134.10
134.11     134.11
134.12     134.12
134.13     134.13
134.14     134.14
135.01     135.01
135.02     135.02
135.03     135.03
135.04     135.04
135.05     135.05
135.06     135.06
135.07     135.07
135.08     135.08
135.09     135.09
135.10     135.10
135.11     135.11
135.12     135.12
135.13     135.13
135.16     135.16
135.17     135.17
135.18     135.18
135.19     135.19
135.20     135.20
135.21     135.21
135.22     135.22
135.23     135.23
135.24     135.24
135.25     135.25
135.26     135.26
135.27     135.27
135.28     135.28
135.29     135.29
135.30     135.30
135.31     135.31
135.32     135.32
136.01     136.01
136.02     136.02
136.03     136.03
136.04     136.04
136.05     136.05
136.06     136.06
136.07     136.07
136.08     136.08
136.09     136.09
136.10     136.10
136.11     136.11
136.12     136.12
136.13     136.13
136.14     136.14
136.15     136.15
136.17     136.16
136.18     136.17
136.19     136.18
136.20     136.19
136.21     136.20
136.22     136.21
136.23     136.22
136.24     136.23
136.25     136.24
137.01     137.01
137.02     137.02
137.03     137.03
137.04     137.04
137.05     137.05
137.06     137.06
137.07     137.07
137.08     137.08
137.09     137.09
137.10     137.10
137.11     137.11
137.12     137.12
137.13     137.13
137.14     137.14
137.15     137.15
138.01     138.01
138.02     138.02
138.03     138.03
138.04     138.04
138.05     138.05
138.06     138.06
138.07     138.07
138.08     138.08
138.09     138.09
138.10     138.10
138.11     138.11
138.12     138.12
138.13     138.13
138.14     138.14
138.15     138.15
138.16     138.16
138.17     138.17
138.18     138.18
138.19     138.19
139.01     139.01
139.03     139.02
139.04     139.03
139.05     139.04
139.06     139.05
139.07     139.06
139.08     139.07
139.09     139.08
139.10     139.09
139.11     139.10
139.12     139.11
139.13     139.12
139.14     139.13
139.15     139.14
139.16     139.15
139.17     139.16
139.18     139.17
139.19     139.18
151.001    151.001
151.015    151.015
151.016    151.016
151.017    151.017
151.018    151.018
151.019    151.019
151.020    151.020
151.021    151.021
151.022    151.022
151.035    151.035
151.036    151.036
151.050    151.050
151.051    151.051
151.052    151.052
151.053    151.053
151.054    151.054
151.055    151.055
151.056    151.056
151.057    151.057
151.058    151.058
151.059    151.059
151.060    151.060
151.061    151.061
151.062    151.062
151.063    151.063
151.064    151.064
151.065    151.065
151.066    151.066
151.080    151.080
151.081    151.081
151.082    151.082
151.083    151.083
151.084    151.084
151.085    151.085
151.086    151.086
151.087    151.087
151.088    151.088
151.089    151.089
151.090    151.090
151.091    151.091
151.092    151.092
151.105    151.105
151.106    151.106
151.107    151.107
151.108    151.108
151.109    151.109
151.110    151.110
151.111    151.111
151.125    151.125
151.126    151.126
151.127    151.127
151.140    151.140
151.141    151.141
151.142    151.142
152.01     152.01
152.02     152.02
152.03     152.03
152.04     152.04
152.05     152.05
152.06     152.06
152.07     152.07
152.08     152.08
152.09     152.09
152.10     152.10
152.11     152.11
152.12     152.12
152.99     152.99
155.01     94.05
158.01     153.001
158.02     153.002
158.03     153.003
158.05     153.015
158.10     153.030
158.11     153.031
158.12     153.032
158.13     153.033
158.14     153.034
158.20     153.045
158.21     153.046
158.22     153.047
158.25     153.060
158.26     153.061
158.27     153.062
158.28     153.063
158.30     153.075
158.31     153.076
158.32     153.077
158.33     153.078
158.34     153.079
158.35     153.080
158.36     153.081
158.40     153.095
158.41     153.096
158.42     153.097
158.43     153.098
158.99     153.999
159.01     154.01
159.02     154.02
159.03     154.03
159.04     154.05
159.05     154.06
159.06     154.07
159.07     154.08
159.08     154.09
159.09     154.10
159.10     154.11
159.11     154.12
159.12     154.13
159.13     154.14
159.14     154.15
159.15     154.16
159.16     154.17
159.17     154.18
159.18     154.19
159.19     154.20
159.21     154.21
159.23     154.22
159.24     154.23
159.25     154.24
159.99     154.99
164.01     155.01
164.02     155.02
164.03     155.03
164.04     155.04
164.05     155.05
164.06     155.06
164.07     155.07
164.08     155.08
164.09     155.09
164.10     155.10
164.11     155.11
164.12     155.12
164.13     155.13
164.14     155.14
164.15     155.15
164.16     155.16
164.17     155.17
164.18     155.18
164.19     155.19
164.20     155.20
164.21     155.21
164.22     155.22
164.23     155.23
164.24     155.24
164.25     155.25
164.26     155.26
164.99     155.99
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Page No./Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Page No./Date Passed Code Section
319      850                  TSO VI
322      882                  TSO VI
21-88A   6-3-1989             52.03
21-91    10-7-1991            33.35—
                              33.37
06-97    7-28-1997            TSO II
05-02    6-24-2002            TSO IV
08-02    8-26-2002            TSO IV
05-05    6-27-2005            TSO II,
                              IV
03-07    4-23-2007            TSO IV
02-08    5-27-2008            33.50 
                              33.52
03-08    5-27-2008            TSO V
05-08    6-23-2008            37.01 
                              37.06
07-08    8-25-2008            Ch. 163 reference
03-09    8-24-2009            Ch. 51;
                              Ch. 52
07-09    10-26-2009           TSO IV
02-10    5-10-2010            TSO IV
03-10    5-10-2010            TSO IV
07-10    7-26-2010            38.15—
                              38.20
04-10    9-13-2010            TSO IV
03-11    - -2011              TSO IV
02-11    4-11-2011            TSO IV
06-11    10-10-2011           TSO IV
08-11    10-24-2011           TSO IV
10-11    12-12-2011           TSO IV
02-12    2-27-2012            TSO IV
05-12    4-23-2012            TSO IV
07-12    9-24-2012            TSO IV
47-24    9-9-2024             TSO IV
                             
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Page No./Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Page No./Date Passed Code Section
5        11                   TSO I
10       22                   TSO IV
16       30                   TSO IV
39       60                   TSO VI
56       83                   TSO I
64       99                   TSO IV
83       115                  TSO I
85       116                  TSO VII
100      139                  TSO I
124      165                  TSO V
138      177                  TSO V
184      231                  TSO IV
187      236                  TSO IV
226      337                  TSO VI
299      65                   TSO III
315      100                  TSO IV
319      112                  TSO IV
325      118                  TSO VI
326      119                  TSO IV
356      212                  TSO IV
360      217                  TSO VI
387      268                  TSO III
392      278                  TSO IV
401      310                  TSO IV
408      327                  TSO IV
413      337                  TSO IV
421      346                  TSO II
425      357                  TSO IV
429      373                  TSO IV
434      391                  TSO IV
435      392                  TSO II
438      395                  TSO II
442      403                  TSO III
448      416                  TSO IV
452      447                  TSO III
462      444                  TSO IV
466      450                  TSO I
473      464                  TSO IV
476      467                  TSO IV
482      482                  TSO III
484      488                  TSO IV
487      498                  TSO IV
495      504                  TSO IV
501      511                  TSO IV
502      513                  TSO V
508      522                  TSO IV
511      526                  TSO IV
512      527                  TSO I
516      532                  TSO I
517      533                  TSO I
518      534                  TSO IV
520      536                  TSO IV
525      541                  TSO I
531      556                  TSO IV
538      566                  TSO I
539      568                  TSO IV
543      577                  TSO III
551      595                  TSO I
552      596                  TSO IV
557      614                  TSO II
561      621                  TSO I
565      629                  TSO IV
570      642                  TSO IV
573      645                  TSO IV
576      653                  TSO I
577      654                  TSO I
584      667                  TSO I
587      671                  TSO I
589      679                  TSO IV
591      682                  TSO I
604      699                  TSO I
613      711                  TSO I
619      729                  TSO IV
625      740                  TSO I
642      777                  TSO IV
644      782                  TSO I
645      784                  TSO I
652      801                  TSO IV
659      815                  TSO IV
663      826                  TSO I
665      828                  TSO IV
666      831                  TSO I
667      832                  TSO I
670      834                  TSO IV
685      867                  TSO III
686      868                  TSO I
687      869                  TSO IV
689      786                  TSO II
703      894                  TSO IV
707      907                  TSO IV
709      913                  TSO IV
734      994                  TSO IV
753      1072                 TSO IV
755      1077                 TSO IV
768      1097                 TSO I
769      1098                 TSO I
772      1101                 TSO IV
794      1127                 TSO III
797      1129                 TSO IV
801      1133                 TSO IV
810      1142                 TSO IV
823      1155                 TSO II
833      1165                 TSO IV
846      1184                 TSO I
851      1189                 TSO III
862      1201                 TSO IV
867      1206                 TSO II
868      1207                 TSO IV
875      1214                 TSO II
877      1216                 TSO II
886      1226                 TSO I
890      1230                 TSO IV
922      1283                 TSO IV
925      1286                 TSO IV
13-22    - -                  TSO VIII
19-07    1-22-2020            TSO VIII
1046     - -                  94.05
                              152.01;
                              152.03;
                              152.05;
726      2-6-1961             152.06;
                              152.08 
                              152.11;
                              152.99
854      10-18-1965           152.05
                              151.001;
                              151.015—
                              151.022;
                              151.035;
                              151.036;
                              151.050—
                              151.066;
1030     10-19-1970           151.080 
                              151.092;
                              151.105—
                              151.111;
                              151.125 
                              151.127;
                              151.140—
                              151.142
989      11-12-1970           152.07
1057     7-12-1971            TSO VII
                              152.01;
                              152.03;
1087     3-20-1972            152.05—
                              152.11;
                              152.99
1099     8-14-1972            TSO II
1103     9-11-1972            TSO V
1132     11-5-1973            95.04;
                              95.99
1135     11-5-1973            TSO I
1151     1-21-1974            TSO II
1155     3-18-1974            152.07
1163     4-15-1974            TSO IV
1170     5-6-1974             TSO II
                              131.23;
                              131.25;
                              132.14—
                              132.18;
                              132.35;
                              132.36;
                              132.39;
                              135.20;
1169     6-10-1974            135.21;
                              136.14;
                              136.16;
                              137.05;
                              138.12;
                              139.04;
                              139.06;
                              139.10;
                              139.12—
                              139.15
1173     7-8-1974             TSO II
1178     10-7-1974            TSO II
1250     4-5-1976             TSO IV
1255     5-3-1976             TSO IV
1256     7-12-1976            92.45—
                              92.47
1270     10-4-1976            TSO II
1266     10-18-1976           TSO IV
1273     10-18-1976           TSO II
1280     2-7-1977             TSO IV
1281     2-7-1977             TSO IV
                              131.23;
                              131.25;
                              132.14—
                              132.19;
                              132.35;
                              135.20;
1306     6-13-1977            135.21;
                              136.14;
                              136.16;
                              137.05;
                              139.04;
                              139.06—
                              139.13
                              70.08;
                              70.09;
                              70.31;
1313     10-17-1977           72.018;
                              72.113;
                              76.06;
                              76.07
1316     10-17-1977           TSO IV
1318     11-21-1977           TSO IV
1325     1-23-1978            76.08
1348     5-15-1978            TSO IV
1353     7-10-1978            110.28
1366     10-2-1978            TSO IV
1367     10-2-1978            TSO IV
1403     4-30-1979            TSO IV
1401     5-21-1979            92.99
1405     5-21-1979            92.99
1402     7-16-1979            TSO IV
1418     9-10-1979            TSO V
                              91.02—
1417     10-1-1979            91.07;
                              91.99
                              110.01—
1425     2-4-1980             110.04;
                              110.06—
                              110.13
1443     5-22-1980            TSO IV
1466     6-23-1980            110.05
1526     6-15-1981            91.01
1550     9-21-1981            112.15
1551     9-21-1981            132.17
1552     10-5-1981            33.01 
                              33.06
1577     1-18-1982            TSO V
1590     6-7-1982             35.01;
                              35.02
1593     7-19-1982            TSO I
1594     7-19-1982            TSO I
1598     7-19-1982            132.40;
                              132.41
1603     7-19-1982            TSO IV
                              90.01—
1599     8-30-1982            90.04;
                              90.99
1614     11-15-1982           TSO IV
1629     3-7-1983             TSO IV
1634     5-16-1983            35.03
1645     7-11-1983            TSO IV
1658     7-11-1983            TSO IV
1648     8-15-1983            TSO I
1636     11-7-1983            TSO VIII
1663     1-16-1984            TSO IV
1664     1-16-1984            TSO IV
1665     1-16-1984            TSO II
1668     3-5-1984             TSO IV
1688     9-4-1984             TSO IV
86-03    2-3-1986             TSO IV
86-14    4-7-1986             TSO IV;
                              TSO V
86-30    11-3-1986            TSO IV
87-01    1-5-1987             TSO IV
87-16    5-4-1987             TSO IV
87-18    5-4-1987             152.03
87-21    5-4-1987             TSO VIII
87-30    9-8-1987             132.44;
                              132.45
87-36    9-8-1987             71.45—
                              71.48
87-38    9-8-1987             TSO II
87-39    9-8-1987             TSO IV
87-40    9-8-1987             TSO V
87-43    9-8-1987             130.13
87-48    10-1-1987            TSO IV
                              52.01—
87-29    10-5-1987            52.32;
                              52.99
88-22    - -1988              TSO IV
88-03    1-4-1988             TSO IV
88-06    1-4-1988             TSO IV
88-02    2-1-1988             132.44
88-07    2-1-1988             TSO IV
88-09    2-1-1988             TSO IV
88-11    3-7-1988             151.140;
                              151.141
88-13    3-7-1988             TSO IV
88-26    5-2-1988             TSO IV
88-27    6-4-1988             151.087
88-30    6-6-1988             TSO IV
88-33    6-6-1988             TSO IV
88-34    6-6-1988             91.01;
                              91.02
88-37    8-1-1988             TSO IV
88-40    8-1-1988             TSO I
88-39    10-3-1988            10.02
88-46    11-7-1988            152.03;
                              152.99; 157.99
88-57    11-7-1988            TSO IV
89-02    1-25-1989            31.03
89-03    1-25-1989            TSO IV
89-11    3-6-1989             TSO II
88-63    4-6-1989             TSO IV
89-24    6-3-1989             TSO II
89-25    6-3-1989             TSO IV
89-28    6-3-1989             31.07
88-62    7-10-1989            152.03
89-44    7-10-1989            TSO IV
89-45    7-10-1989            TSO IV
89-36    7-17-1989            92.03;
                              92.99
89-12    8-7-1989             76.01
89-50    9-5-1989             33.02;
                              33.03
89-89    11-29-1989           152.03
89-92    2-19-1990            30.02
90-42    5-21-1990            TSO II
90-43    5-21-1990            TSO I
90-48    9-4-1990             TSO I
90-64    9-17-1990            92.45—
                              92.48
90-65    9-17-1990            132.10
90-68    9-17-1990            33.02;
                              33.03
90-89    12-3-1990            53.01
                              32.01—
90-85    12-17-1990           32.09;
                              32.20
91-10    1-21-1991            TSO I
90-82    2-20-1991            35.04
91-18    2-20-1991            33.06
91-22    3-4-1991             152.02;
                              152.12
91-64    8-19-1991            70.11
91-85    11-4-1991            33.02;
                              33.03
91-93    12-2-1991            31.24
92-29    3-16-1992            TSO III
92-30    3-16-1992            Charter, Art. X, § 5
92-14    4-6-1992             32.09
92-37    4-20-1992            TSO I
92-49    5-4-1992             94.01
92-77    10-19-1992           TSO I
92-81    12-7-1992            152.03
93-05    1-4-1993             TSO I
                              154.01—
                              154.03;
93-08    3-1-1993             154.05—
                              154.23;
                              154.26;
                              154.99
93-20    3-15-1993            152.03
R-11-93  3-29-1993            TSO II
93-28    5-3-1993             TSO III
93-30    5-17-1993            TSO IV
93-32    5-17-1993            TSO IV
93-33    5-17-1993            TSO IV
                              153.001—
                              153.003;
                              153.015;
                              153.030 
                              153.034;
93-27    6-21-1993            153.045—
                              153.047;
                              153.060—
                              153.062;
                              153.075—
                              153.081;
                              153.098
93-38    6-21-1993            TSO IV
93-39    6-28-1993            TSO IV
93-40    6-28-1993            TSO IV
93-41    7-12-1993            TSO IV
93-42    7-12-1993            TSO IV
93-43    7-12-1993            TSO IV
93-44    7-12-1993            TSO IV
93-47    8-16-1993            TSO IV
93-48    8-16-1993            TSO II
93-50    9-8-1993             TSO IV
93-54    10-4-1993            TSO IV
93-53    10-18-1993           TSO IV
93-56    11-1-1993            TSO IV
93-57    11-1-1993            72.043
93-64    12-6-1993            TSO IV
94-06    - -1994              TSO IV
94-01    1-3-1994             TSO IV
94-02    1-3-1994             TSO IV
94-03    1-3-1994             TSO IV
94-05    1-3-1994             TSO IV
                              91.20—
93-65    2-7-1994             91.22;
                              91.99
93-66    2-7-1994             113.01
94-04    2-7-1994             30.02
94-13    2-7-1994             TSO IV
94-15    2-7-1994             TSO IV
94-16    2-21-1994            TSO IV
94-19    3-7-1994             TSO IV
94-20    3-7-1994             TSO IV
94-25    4-18-1994            TSO IV
94-26    4-18-1994            TSO IV
94-27    4-18-1994            TSO IV
94-32    5-2-1994             TSO IV
94-33    5-16-1994            TSO IV
94-34    5-16-1994            TSO IV
94-36    6-20-1994            TSO IV
94-37    6-20-1994            TSO II
94-38    7-11-1994            TSO IV
94-39    7-11-1994            TSO IV
94-40    7-11-1994            TSO IV
94-41    7-11-1994            TSO IV
94-44    9-7-1994             TSO IV
94-46    9-7-1994             TSO IV
                              92.01;
94-43    9-19-1994            92.49;
                              92.99
94-48    10-3-1994            TSO II
94-59    12-12-1994           TSO IV
94-62    12-12-1994           TSO IV
95-01    1-4-1995             TSO IV
95-03    1-4-1995             TSO IV
95-49    6-5-1995             TSO IV
95-65    9-18-1995            90.04;
                              90.99
95-78    12-11-1995           30.02
96-08    1-22-1996            30.02
96-09    2-26-1996            31.24
                              155.01—
96-12    3-11-1996            155.26;
                              155.99
                              154.13;
96-24    5-29-1996            154.18;
                              154.20
96-41    6-24-1996            TSO IV
96-42    6-24-1996            TSO IV
96-45    6-24-1996            TSO IV
96-46    6-24-1996            TSO IV
96-49    7-22-1996            TSO IV
96-50    7-22-1996            TSO IV
96-52    7-22-1996            TSO IV
96-40    8-26-1996            30.02
96-54    8-26-1996            TSO IV
96-57    9-9-1996             TSO IV
96-59    9-9-1996             TSO III
96-60    9-9-1996             TSO IV
96-63    9-23-1996            TSO IV
96-66    10-14-1996           TSO IV
96-69    10-28-1996           TSO IV
96-70    10-28-1996           TSO IV
96-73    10-28-1996           TSO IV
96-75    11-11-1996           TSO IV
96-53    12-2-1996            TSO IV
96-78    12-2-1996            TSO IV
96-79    12-2-1996            TSO IV
96-80    12-2-1996            TSO IV
96-77    12-16-1996           TSO IV
97-02    1-13-1997            TSO IV
97-04    1-25-1997            TSO IV
97-05    2-10-1997            132.40;
                              132.41
97-12    4-14-1997            TSO IV
97-13    4-14-1997            TSO IV
97-14    4-14-1997            TSO IV
97-16    4-14-1997            TSO IV
97-18    4-28-1997            TSO IV
97-20    5-12-1997            TSO IV
97-21    5-12-1997            TSO IV
97-22    5-12-1997            TSO IV
97-23    5-12-1997            TSO IV
97-24    5-12-1997            TSO IV
97-25    5-28-1997            TSO IV
96-47    6-24-1997            TSO V
97-27    7-28-1997            30.02
97-30    7-28-1997            TSO IV
97-31    7-28-1997            TSO IV
97-32    7-28-1997            TSO IV
97-34    8-25-1997            TSO IV
97-35    8-25-1997            TSO IV
97-68    1-12-1998            152.03
98-03    1-12-1998            TSO I
98-18    4-13-1998            TSO I
98-19    4-13-1998            TSO I
                              Charter, Art. III, § 3;
                              Art. IV, § 5;
                              Art. V, §§ 2,
                              3;
                              Art. VII, §§ 1,
98-28    7-27-1998            4;
                              Art. VIII, §§ 1—
                              5;
                              Art. XII, §§ 1 -
                              3;
                              Art. XIII, §§ 1,
                              2
98-34    7-27-1998            TSO I
98-39    8-24-1998            TSO I
98-44    9-28-1998            TSO IV
98-46    10-12-1998           TSO IV
98-47    10-12-1998           TSO IV
98-48    10-26-1998           TSO IV
98-49    10-26-1998           TSO IV
98-50    10-26-1998           TSO IV
98-51    12-14-1998           TSO IV
98-52    12-14-1998           TSO IV
98-53    12-14-1998           TSO IV
98-54    12-14-1998           TSO IV
98-55    12-14-1998           TSO II
99-01    1-11-1999            TSO IV
99-04    1-25-1999            TSO IV
99-05    2-8-1999             TSO IV
99-07    2-8-1999             TSO IV
99-08    2-8-1999             TSO IV
99-09    3-8-1999             TSO IV
99-11    3-22-1999            TSO IV
99-13    3-22-1999            TSO IV
99-14    4-12-1999            TSO IV
99-23    4-12-1999            TSO IV
99-24    4-26-1999            TSO IV
99-28    4-26-1999            TSO IV
99-10    5-10-1999            72.018
99-32    5-10-1999            TSO IV
99-33    5-24-1999            TSO IV
99-35    5-24-1999            TSO IV
99-29    6-28-1999            TSO IV
99-36    6-28-1999            TSO IV
99-37    6-28-1999            TSO IV
99-39    6-28-1999            TSO IV
99-40    6-28-1999            TSO IV
99-42    6-28-1999            TSO IV
99-43    7-19-1999            TSO IV
99-45    8-23-1999            TSO IV
99-46    8-23-1999            TSO IV
99-52    9-13-1999            TSO IV
99-53    9-13-1999            TSO IV
99-56    10-25-1999           TSO IV
99-63    12-13-1999           TSO IV
99-64    12-13-1999           TSO IV
99-67    12-13-1999           TSO IV
00-01    1-10-2000            TSO IV
00-04    1-10-2000            TSO IV
00-05    1-24-2000            TSO IV
00-07    1-24-2000            TSO IV
00-08    3-13-2000            TSO IV
00-13    4-24-2000            TSO IV
00-14    4-24-2000            TSO IV
00-16    4-24-2000            TSO IV
00-12    5-8-2000             TSO IV
00-15    5-8-2000             TSO IV
00-17    5-22-2000            TSO IV
00-20    6-26-2000            94.01
00-22    8-28-2000            TSO IV
00-28    10-9-2000            TSO IV
00-30    11-27-2000           TSO IV
00-29    12-11-2000           97.02;
                              97.03
00-33    12-11-2000           TSO IV
00-34    12-11-2000           TSO IV
00-35    12-11-2000           TSO IV
01-01    1-8-2001             TSO IV
01-02    1-8-2001             TSO IV
01-04    2-12-2001            TSO IV
01-05    2-12-2001            TSO I
01-06    3-12-2001            TSO IV
01-07    3-12-2001            TSO IV
01-08    3-12-2001            TSO IV
01-10    4-9-2001             TSO IV
01-11    4-9-2001             TSO IV
01-14    4-23-2001            TSO IV
01-16    5-30-2001            TSO II
1-17     7-23-2001            TSO IV
01-23    7-23-2001            TSO IV
01-24    7-23-2001            TSO IV
01-25    7-23-2001            TSO IV
01-22    9-10-2001            133.13
01-27    9-10-2001            TSO IV
01-35    10-8-2001            TSO II
01-39    11-16-2001           TSO IV
01-45    12-10-2001           TSO IV
01-47    12-10-2001           TSO IV
01-48    12-10-2001           TSO IV
01-49    12-10-2001           TSO IV
01-50    12-10-2001           TSO IV
01-51    12-10-2001           TSO IV
01-52    12-10-2001           TSO IV
02-02    1-28-2002            TSO IV
02-06    2-25-2002            TSO IV
02-07    3-11-2002            TSO IV
02-11    3-25-2002            TSO IV
02-13    4-8-2002             TSO II
02-12    4-22-2002            TSO IV
02-14    4-22-2002            TSO IV
02-15    4-22-2002            TSO IV
02-18    4-22-2002            TSO IV
02-19    4-29-2002            TSO IV
02-20    5-13-2002            TSO IV
02-22    5-13-2002            TSO IV
02-17    5-29-2002            75.07
02-23    5-29-2002            TSO IV
02-21    6-24-2002            TSO IV
02-24    6-24-2002            TSO IV
02-25    6-24-2002            TSO IV
02-26    7-15-2002            TSO IV
02-27    7-22-2002            TSO IV
02-28    8-26-2002            TSO IV
02-30    8-26-2002            TSO II
02-35    11-11-2002           TSO IV
02-37    11-11-2002           TSO IV
02-38    11-11-2002           TSO IV
02-42    12-9-2002            TSO IV
02-43    12-9-2002            TSO IV
02-45    12-9-2002            TSO IV
02-46    1-13-2003            152.03
03-01    1-13-2003            TSO IV
03-02    1-13-2003            TSO IV
03-03    3-10-2003            TSO IV
03-04    3-10-2003            TSO IV
03-05    3-10-2003            TSO IV
03-08    4-14-2003            TSO II
09-09    4-14-2003            TSO II
03-10    4-28-2003            TSO IV
03-11    4-28-2003            TSO IV
03-12    6-23-2003            TSO IV
03-13    7-28-2003            TSO IV
03-14    7-28-2003            TSO IV
03-16    8-25-2003            TSO I
03-17    8-25-2003            TSO IV
03-21    9-22-2003            TSO II
03-22    10-13-2003           TSO IV
03-25    12-8-2003            91.22
03-34    12-8-2003            TSO IV
03-35    12-8-2003            TSO IV
03-36    12-8-2003            TSO IV
3-37     12-8-2003            TSO IV
03-39    12-8-2003            TSO IV
04-02    1-12-2004            TSO IV
04-04    1-12-2004            TSO IV
04-06    2-9-2004             TSO VII
04-07    2-23-2004            TSO IV
04-08    3-8-2004             TSO IV
04-09    3-8-2004             TSO IV
03-24    3-22-2004            90.06;
                              90.99
03-26    4-10-2004            76.06
04-15    4-26-2004            TSO IV
04-16    4-26-2004            TSO IV
04-17    4-26-2004            33.06
04-20    6-28-2004            35.05
04-23    6-28-2004            97.02;
                              97.03
04-25    7-26-2004            TSO IV
04-19    8-23-2004            TSO IV
                              91.99;
                              92.99;
                              93.999;
04-21    8-23-2004            94.99;
                              96.99;
                              152.99;
                              153.999
04-26    8-23-2004            TSO II
04-27    9-13-2004            TSO IV
04-31    9-27-2004            TSO IV
04-33    12-13-2004           152.03
04-35    12-13-2004           TSO IV
04-36    12-13-2004           TSO IV
04-38    12-13-2004           TSO IV
04-39    12-13-2004           TSO IV
05-01    1-10-2005            TSO IV
                              33.01;
05-02    1-24-2005            33.03;
                              33.06
05-08    3-14-2005            TSO IV
05-09    3-14-2005            TSO IV
05-11    4-11-2005            TSO IV
05-12    4-11-2005            TSO IV
05-13    4-11-2005            TSO IV
05-15    4-25-2005            TSO IV
05-20    7-25-2005            TSO IV
05-21    7-25-2005            TSO IV
05-19    8-22-2005            152.02
05-28    10-10-2005           TSO II
05-31    10-24-2005           TSO IV
05-26    11-14-2005           94.03
05-34    11-14-2005           TSO IV
05-04    12-12-2005           76.09
05-37    12-12-2005           TSO IV
05-39    12-12-2005           TSO IV
05-45    12-12-2005           TSO IV
05-36    1-9-2006             TSO IV
06-01    1-9-2006             TSO IV
06-02    1-9-2006             TSO IV
06-03    1-9-2006             TSO IV
06-04    1-9-2006             TSO IV
06-06    3-13-2006            TSO IV
06-11    3-27-2006            TSO IV
06-12    3-27-2006            TSO IV
05-35    4-10-2006            139.18
06-13    4-10-2006            TSO IV
06-14    4-24-2006            TSO IV
06-17    4-24-2006            TSO IV
06-07    5-8-2006             TSO IV
06-19    6-26-2006            TSO IV
06-29    8-28-2006            94.04
06-30    8-28-2006            TSO IV
06-34    8-28-2006            TSO IV
06-32    9-11-2006            TSO IV
06-38    9-11-2006            TSO IV
06-26    9-25-2006            152.02
06-39    9-25-2006            TSO IV
06-40    10-9-2006            TSO IV
06-44    10-9-2006            TSO IV
06-46    10-23-2006           TSO IV
06-48    12-11-2006           TSO IV
06-51    12-11-2006           TSO IV
06-52    12-11-2006           TSO IV
06-53    12-11-2006           TSO IV
07-15    - -2007              TSO IV
06-50    1-8-2007             TSO IV
07-01    1-8-2007             TSO IV
07-02    1-8-2007             TSO IV
07-04    2-12-2007            TSO IV
06-55    2-26-2007            TSO VIII
07-06    2-26-2007            TSO IV
07-07    2-26-2007            TSO IV
07-10    4-9-2007             132.37;
                              132.41
07-16    4-23-2007            TSO IV
07-17    4-23-2007            TSO IV
07-19    5-14-2007            TSO IV
07-20    5-14-2007            TSO IV
07-21    6-25-2007            TSO IV
07-22    6-25-2007            TSO IV
07-24    7-23-2007            TSO IV
07-25    7-23-2007            TSO IV
07-31    9-10-2007            TSO IV
07-36    10-8-2007            TSO IV
07-37    10-22-2007           TSO IV
07-38    11-12-2007           TSO IV
07-44    12-10-2007           TSO IV
07-45    12-10-2007           TSO IV
07-46    12-10-2007           TSO IV
07-48    12-10-2007           TSO IV
08-01    1-14-2008            TSO IV
08-06    1-14-2008            114.01
08-07    1-14-2008            TSO IV
08-08    1-14-2008            TSO IV
08-09    1-28-2008            TSO I
08-10    1-28-2008            TSO I
08-11    3-24-2008            153.063
08-12    3-24-2008            TSO IV
08-13    3-24-2008            TSO IV
08-14    3-24-2008            TSO IV
08-18    3-24-2008            TSO IV
08-19    4-28-2008            TSO IV
08-20    4-28-2008            153.095;
                              153.096
08-21    5-27-2008            TSO VII
08-28    6-23-2008            TSO IV
08-29    6-23-2008            TSO IV
08-30    6-23-2008            TSO IV
08-32    7-28-2008            TSO IV
08-34    8-25-2008            TSO IV
08-35    8-25-2008            TSO II
08-31    10-27-2008           132.20
08-40    12-8-2008            38.35
08-41    12-8-2008            TSO IV
09-02    1-12-2009            TSO IV
09-03    1-12-2009            TSO IV
09-05    1-12-2009            TSO IV
09-04    1-26-2009            TSO IV
09-06    2-9-2009             TSO IV
09-01    2-23-2009            TSO IV
09-08    4-13-2009            TSO IV
09-09    4-13-2009            TSO IV
09-07    4-27-2009            TSO IV
09-11    4-27-2009            TSO IV
09-12    4-27-2009            TSO IV
09-15    6-22-2009            TSO IV
09-18    7-27-2009            TSO IV
09-19    7-27-2009            TSO IV
09-21    8-10-2009            TSO IV
09-20    8-24-2009            TSO IV
09-25    8-24-2009            TSO IV
09-26    9-28-2009            TSO II
09-24    10-12-2009           TSO II
09-27    10-12-2009           TSO II
09-29    11-23-2009           TSO IV
09-30    11-23-2009           TSO IV
09-31    12-1-2009            38.36
09-32    12-14-2009           TSO IV
09-33    12-14-2009           TSO IV
09-34    12-14-2009           TSO IV
09-35    12-14-2009           TSO IV
09-36    12-14-2009           TSO IV
09-37    12-14-2009           TSO IV
09-40    12-14-2009           TSO IV
10-01    1-11-2010            TSO IV
10-02    1-11-2010            TSO IV
10-03    1-11-2010            TSO IV
10-06    4-12-2010            TSO IV
10-08    4-26-2010            TSO IV
10-09    4-26-2010            TSO IV
10-10    4-26-2010            TSO IV
10-11    4-26-2010            TSO IV
10-13    6-28-2010            TSO IV
10-14    6-28-2010            TSO IV
10-17    7-26-2010            TSO IV
10-20    8-13-2010            TSO IV
10-15    8-23-2010            90.03;
                              90.06
10-18    8-23-2010            TSO II
10-19    8-23-2010            TSO IV
10-21    9-13-2010            TSO IV
10-27    12-13-2010           TSO IV
11-01    1-10-2011            TSO IV
11-02    1-10-2011            TSO IV
11-03    1-10-2011            TSO IV
10-23    2-14-2011            150.149
11-04    2-14-2011            TSO IV
11-07    3-28-2011            TSO IV
11-08    3-28-2011            TSO IV
11-09    5-9-2011             TSO IV
11-11    6-27-2011            TSO IV
11-12    6-27-2011            TSO IV
11-13    6-27-2011            TSO IV
11-18    6-27-2011            TSO IV
11-16    7-25-2011            TSO IV
11-17A   8-8-2011             Charter, Art. IV, § 5
11-17B   8-8-2011             Charter, Art. VII, § 1
11-17C   8-8-2011             Charter, Art. XII, §§ 2,
                              3
11-17D   8-8-2011             Charter, Art. XIV, § 5
11-21    9-12-2011            TSO IV
11-22    9-12-2011            TSO IV
11-23    10-10-2011           33.02
11-25    10-24-2011           TSO IV
11-26    10-24-2011           TSO IV
11-30    12-12-2011           TSO IV
11-31    12-12-2011           TSO IV
11-32    12-12-2011           TSO IV
11-33    12-12-2011           TSO IV
11-35    12-12-2011           TSO I
12-06    - -2012              TSO IV
12-13    - -2012              TSO IV
12-01    1-9-2012             TSO IV
12-02    1-9-2012             TSO IV
12-03    1-9-2012             TSO IV
12-04    1-9-2012             TSO IV
12-05    1-9-2012             TSO IV
13-07    1-14-2012            38.37
12-07    2-13-2012            TSO IV
12-08    2-13-2012            TSO IV
12-10    2-27-2012            38.01
                              113.01—
11-20    3-26-2012            113.05;
                              113.99
12-11    3-27-2012            TSO IV
12-12    5-14-2012            TSO VIII
12-16    5-14-2012            TSO IV
12-17    5-14-2012            TSO IV
12-19    5-14-2012            TSO IV
12-20    6-25-2012            TSO IV
12-21    7-23-2012            TSO IV
12-22    8-27-2012            TSO IV
12-27    10-22-2012           TSO VIII
13-01    1-14-2013            TSO IV
13-02    1-14-2013            TSO IV
13-04    1-14-2013            TSO IV
13-05    1-14-2013            TSO IV
13-06    1-14-2013            TSO IV
13-03    1-28-2013            TSO IV
13-08    1-28-2013            TSO IV
13-09    2-25-2013            TSO I
13-12    3-11-2013            152.12
13-14    3-25-2013            TSO IV
13-15    3-25-2013            TSO IV
13-24    10-14-2013           TSO VIII
16-07    9-12-2016            74.67
                              97.01—
16-09    9-12-2016            97.46;
                              97.99
                              Charter, Article III, § 5;
                              Charter, Article IV, § 1;
                              Charter, Article V, § 1;
                              Charter, Article V, § 2;
17-03    3-2-2017             Charter, Article V, § 3;
                              Charter, Article V, § 4;
                              Charter, Article XI, § 1;
                              Charter, Article XII, § 2;
                              Charter, Article XII, § 3
                              Charter, Article VII, § 1;
                              Charter, Article VII, § 2;
                              Charter, Article VII, § 3;
17-04    3-2-2017             Charter, Article VII, § 4;
                              Charter, Article XVII, § 1;
                              Charter, Article XVII, § 2;
                              Charter, Article XVII, § 3;
                              Charter, Article XVII, § 4
                              Charter, Article XI, § 1;
17-06    3-13-2017            Charter, Article XII, § 2;
                              Charter, Article XII, § 3
                              115.01—
17-07    4-10-2017            115.04;
                              115.99
                              31.24;
                              151.022;
                              151.125—
                              151.127;
                              152.12;
17-10    9-25-2017            153.002;
                              154.03;
                              154.13;
                              154.22;
                              155.04;
                              155.14
17-11    12-11-2017           152.04
                              97.01 
18-02    3-18-2018            97.46;
                              97.99
18-07    7-23-2018            98.01—
                              98.08
18-09    1-14-2019            94.03
19-04    9-23-2019            154.20;
                              154.23
19-05    11-25-2019           32.09
                              92.45—
                              92.48;
19-06    11-25-2019           92.99;
                              153.079;
                              153.095;
                              153.999
20-02    3-9-2020             97.19
20-03    3-9-2020             71.45—
                              71.48
20-04    3-9-2020             50.01
20-06    4-13-2020            30.02
                              92.45—
20-07    7-27-2020            92.48;
                              92.99
                              95.15—
20-09    9-28-2020            95.21;
                              95.99
20-10    11-23-2020           TSO VIII
                              150.001—
                              150.013;
                              150.025—
                              150.031;
                              150.045—
                              150.056;
                              150.070—
                              150.076;
21-01    6-14-2021            150.090—
                              150.111;
                              150.125—
                              150.128;
                              150.140—
                              150.164;
                              150.175—
                              150.178;
                              150.999
21-02    6-28-2021            TSO VIII
21-03    6-28-2021            TSO III
                              92.45—
                              92.48;
                              153.031;
21-04    8-9-2021             153.079;
                              153.095;
                              153.097—
                              153.099;
                              153.999
21-05    10-25-2021           TSO VIII
21-09    11-22-2021           150.140—
                              150.164
22-04    4-11-2022            90.07
22-06    5-23-2022            34.01
22-07    6-27-2022            116.01—
                              116.08
22-08    8-22-2022            153.097
22-09    9-26-2022            116.05
                              156.001—
                              156.011;
                              156.025—
                              156.038;
                              156.050—
23-01    4-10-2023            156.059;
                              156.070—
                              156.075;
                              156.090;
                              156.091;
                              156.999
24-01    3-11-2024            30.02
                              93.001;
24-04    7-22-2024            150.071;
                              152.04
24-07    9-9-2024             94.03
                              154.01—
24-09    11-25-2024           154.27;
                              154.99
24-11    11-4-2024            TSO V
24-12    11-4-2024            TSO II
24-13    11-4-2024            TSO II
25-01    2-10-2025            97.19
                             
 
 
 
