VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 11-2023, passed September 27, 2023
State legislation current through June 30, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
 
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
MARBLEHEAD, OHIO
(2024)
 
Council
Dean Dorko, President Pro-Tem
Dennis Kennedy
Matthew Kovach
Angela Kukay
Maryann Sauvey
Lee Walker
 
Mayor                 John E. Starcher
Fiscal Officer        Rhonda I. Sowers
Village Administrator Jeffrey White
Solicitor             James C. Barney
Police Chief          Kenn Thellmann
Water Superintendent  Richard A. Joyce
Zoning Administrator  Robert Hruska
                      
Planning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
Tim Feller, Chairman
Dennis Kennedy
John Starcher
Cher Monak
Richard Zembala
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 12, 2007
Passed  8-9-07
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and authorize
the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Marblehead,
Ohio."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
      11.   Authority and Jurisdiction
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Planning Commission
      31.   Board of Public Affairs
      32.   Village Officials
      33.   Meetings and Work Sessions
      34.   Code of Ethical Conduct
      35.   Drug and Alcohol Workplace Program
      36.   Compensation for Employees on Temporary Military Duty
      37.   Taxation
      38.   Finances
      39.   Police and Fire Departments
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Water Regulations
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Licensing Provisions
      72.   Traffic Rules
      73.   Motor Vehicle Crimes
      74.   Equipment and Loads
      75.   Bicycles, Motorcycles, and Off-road Vehicles
      76.   Parking Regulations
      Appendix A: Local Regulations
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Village Cemeteries
      91.   Streets and Sidewalks
      92.   Noise
      93.   Health and Sanitation
      94.   Parks
      95.   Nuisances
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Business Licenses
      111.   Peddlers, Transient Dealers and Solicitors
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Provisions
      131.   Offenses Against Property
      132.   Offenses Against Public Peace
      133.   Sex Offenses
      134.   Gambling Offenses
      135.   Offenses Against Persons
      136.   Offenses Against Justice and Administration
      137.   Weapons Control
      138.   Drug Offenses
      Appendix A: Local Regulations
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Flood Damage Prevention
      151.   Waterfront Plan
      152.   Trailers, Housetrailer Parks and Camps
      153.   Subdivisions
      154.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I.   Annexations
      II.   Improvements
      III.   Contracts, Agreements and Leases
      IV.   Easements
      V.   Real Estate Transactions
      VI.   Street Name Changes
      VII.   Vacations
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
      References to Resolutions
      References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 9th day of August, 2007.
                  Approved: August 9, 2007
                  Jacqueline A. Bird /s/
                  Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Kimberly A. Watts /s/
Kimberly A. Watts, Fiscal Officer
Dated: August 9, 2007
ORDINANCE NO. 10, 2009
PASSED  8-13-09
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2009 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD,
OTTAWA COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
   That the 2009 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Council and the Fiscal Officer of the Village of
Marblehead is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Marblehead, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio on this
13th day of August, 2009.
                                 Approved:  August 13 , 2009
                                 Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor /s/
                                 Jacqueline A, Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Kimberly A. Watts, Fiscal Officer /s/
Kimberly A. Watts, Fiscal Officer
Dated: August 13  , 2009
ORDINANCE NO. 10, 2012
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD,
OTTAWA COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
   That the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Council and the Fiscal Officer of the Village of
Marblehead is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Fiscal
Officer.
Section 3.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Marblehead, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio on this
14th day of June, 2002.
                                          Approved: June 14, 2012
                                          Jacqueline A. Bird /s/
                                          Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Rhonda Botti Sowers /s/
Rhonda Botti Sowers, Fiscal Officer
Dated: June 14, 2012
ORDINANCE NO. 12, 2017
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Marblehead; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD,
OTTAWA COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
   That the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Council and the Fiscal Officer of the Village of
Marblehead is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Fiscal
Officer.
Section 3.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Marblehead, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio on this
29th day of November, 2017.
                                          Approved: November 29, 2017
                                          Jacqueline A. Bird /s/
                                          Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Rhonda Botti Sowers /s/
Rhonda Botti Sowers, Fiscal Officer
Dated: November 29, 2017
ORDINANCE NO. 9, 2018
   PASSED 10-24-18
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Marblehead; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD,
OTTAWA COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
   That the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Council and the Fiscal Officer of the Village of
Marblehead is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Fiscal
Officer.
Section 3.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Marblehead, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio on this
24th day of October, 2018.
      Approved: October 24, 2018
      Jacqueline A. Bird /s/
      Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Rhonda Botti Sowers /s/
Rhonda Botti Sowers, Fiscal Officer
Dated: October 24, 2018
ORDINANCE NO. 3-2020
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Marblehead; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD,
OTTAWA COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
   That the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Council and the Fiscal Officer of the Village of
Marblehead is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Fiscal
Officer.
Section 3.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Marblehead, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio on this
24th day of June, 2020.
                  Approved: June 24, 2020
                  Jacqueline A. Bird /s/
                  Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Rhonda Botti Sowers /s/
Rhonda Botti Sowers, Fiscal Officer
Dated: June 24, 2020
ORDINANCE NO. 3-2020
PASSED 5-12-21
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2021 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Marblehead; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD,
OTTAWA COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
   That the 2021 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Marblehead as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Village Council and the Fiscal Officer of the Village of
Marblehead is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Fiscal
Officer.
Section 3.
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Village of Marblehead, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio on this
12th day of May, 2021.
 
                                          Approved: May 12, 2021
                                          Jacqueline A. Bird /s/
                                          Jacqueline A. Bird, Mayor
Attest:
Rhonda I. Sowers /s/
Rhonda I. Sowers, Fiscal Officer
Dated: May 12, 2021
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of Marblehead, Ohio.
   COUNTY. Ottawa County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of a fire department if the fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the Village of Marblehead, Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of the property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01) (Rev. 2005)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year's Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the "Act of June 28, 1968", 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran's Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14) (Rev. 2001)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46) (Rev. 2002)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving
authority to a majority of officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54) (Rev. 2002)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Rev. 2002)
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the legislative
authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Legislative Authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 731.231, the provision that
establishes the higher or stricter standard shall control.
(Rev. 2002)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted, or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: . . . .”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: . . . .”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: . . . .”
(Rev. 1997)
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parenthesis
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
  Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   (R.C. § 149.43(B))
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see Ohio R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
(Rev. 1998)
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended;
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the legislative authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction;
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49) (Rev. 2002)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any provision shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
(Rev. 1998)
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see Ohio R.C. § 715.67
CHAPTER 11: AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION
Section
   
11.01   Authority and jurisdiction
§ 11.01 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Council pursuant to Ohio R.C. § 721.04 hereby extends the
authority and jurisdiction of the Village of Marblehead, and all of its
ordinances and regulations for a distance of two miles into Lake Erie and
Sandusky Bay. The two mile area shall commence at a point where the westerly
boundary of the village as it exists on October 1, 2000, intersects the natural
shoreline of Lake Erie. Thence northerly in a continuation of the village's
westerly boundary a distance of two miles to a point. Thence easterly,
southerly and westerly, parallel to the natural shoreline of Lake Erie and
Sandusky Bay but two miles therefrom by perpendicular measurement to the
intersection with the southerly extension of the village's westerly boundary,
as it exists on October 1, 2000. Thence northerly, in a southerly extension of
the village's westerly boundary, a distance of two miles to a point on the
natural shoreline of Sandusky Bay, where the two mile area shall terminate, but
excluding from the two mile area any part thereof lying outside the territorial
limits of Ottawa County, Ohio.
   (B)   It is the intention of this Council, that for all purposes of
government and exercise of authority and for all powers the limits of the
village shall be held to extend out, in, over and under the water and land
made, or that may be made within the area described in the preceding paragraph.
   (C)   This chapter amends and updates Ordinance No. 3, of 1997 to include
newly annexed areas.
(Ord. 31, 2000, passed 10-12-2000)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
31.   BOARD OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
      
32.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
33.   MEETINGS AND WORK SESSIONS
      
34.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
      
35.   DRUG AND ALCOHOL WORKPLACE PROGRAM
      
36.   COMPENSATION FOR EMPLOYEES ON TEMPORARY MILITARY DUTY
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   FINANCES
      
39.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
40.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
30.01   Established
   
30.02   Composition; term; compensation
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A Planning Commission is hereby established for the Village of Marblehead,
State of Ohio, in accordance with Ohio R.C. § 713.01.
(Ord. 1, 1965, passed 3-8-1965)
§ 30.02 COMPOSITION; TERM; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The members of the Planning Commission of the Village of Marblehead
shall be five in number, consisting of the Mayor, one member of the Council to
be selected by the Council, and three citizens of the village to be appointed
by the Mayor for terms of six years each, except that the term of one of the
citizens shall be for four years and one for two years on the first Commission
appointed.
   (B)   All such members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1, 1965, passed 3-8-1965)
CHAPTER 31: BOARD OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
Section
   
31.01   Established
   
31.02   Appointment
   
31.03   Compensation
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be and is hereby established a Board of Public Affairs of this
village, to consist of three members, residents of the village, and who shall
be each elected for a term of two years.
(Ord. 12, 1958, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor of the Village of Marblehead, be and he or she hereby is
authorized and directed to appoint the members thereof, subject to the
confirmation of this Council, such appointees upon such confirmation to hold
their respective offices until their successors have been elected at the next
regular election of municipal officers to be held in the Village of Marblehead.
(Ord. 12, 1958, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board, upon their appointment or election and
qualification to their respective offices, shall for their respective salaries
and compensation each receive an amount to be established from time to time as
necessary by the Village Council.
(Ord. 12, 1958, passed 11-10-1958)
§ 31.04 REGULAR MEETING TIME.
   The Board of Public Affairs meeting day is the third Thursday of the month
at 7:00 p.m. at the Water Treatment Plant.
(Res. 1, 2001, passed 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Generally
   
32.01   Chief of Police
   
32.02   Superintendent of Waterworks
   
32.03   Village Administrator
Fiscal Officer
   
32.15   Creation
   
32.16   Duties
   
32.17   Appointment
   
32.18   Removal
   
32.19   Interim Fiscal Officer Assistant
GENERALLY
§ 32.01 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the village is a full-time position.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be paid at the rate as determined by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 13, 2003, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 32.02 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS.
   There is established a Superintendent of Waterworks who shall be a resident
of the village.
(Ord. 12-1959, passed 5-15-1959)
§ 32.03 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of Village Administrator is hereby established to manage
any public utilities and collect any rents for them. The Administrator may pass
bylaws and regulations relating to these utilities, which must not be
inconsistent with village or state laws. The Administrator supervises the
maintenance of public places, streets and sidewalks. The Administrator may
appoint those employees authorized by the Village Council with approval of the
Mayor. The Administrator has all powers of the Board of Public Affairs and
Street Commissioner, plus other powers and duties set by ordinance of Village
Council. However, the Administrator cannot establish utility rates which are
determined by Village Council. The Administrator is under the general
supervision and control of the Mayor.
   (B)   In accordance with R.C. § 735.272, when a Village Administrator is
appointed by the Mayor, and confirmed by the legislative authority of the
Village, the Board of Trustees of Public Affairs shall be abolished and the
term of office of such members of the board shall terminate.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 2-9-2022)
FISCAL OFFICER
§ 32.15 CREATION.
   In accordance with Ohio R.C. § 733.262(B), there is hereby created the
position of Village Fiscal Officer, effective on January 12, 2006 because there
is presently an existing vacancy in the office of Village Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2, 2006, passed 1-12-2006)
§ 32.16 DUTIES.
   The Village Fiscal Officer shall perform the duties provided by law for the
Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer, or the combined position of Village
Clerk-Treasurer and any other duties consistent with the nature of the office
that are provided for by municipal ordinance.
(Ord. 2, 2006, passed 1-12-2006)
§ 32.17 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor of the
village, but that appointment does not become effective until it is approved by
a majority vote of the Village Council.
   (B)   The Village Fiscal Officer need not be an elector of the village or
reside in the village at the time of appointment; however the Fiscal Officer
shall become a resident of the village within six months after the appointment
takes effect, unless an ordinance is passed approving the Fiscal Officer's
residence outside of the village.
(Ord. 2, 2006, passed 1-12-2006)
§ 32.18 REMOVAL.
   The Village Fiscal Officer may be removed without cause either by the Mayor
with the consent of a majority of the members of Village Council or by a three-
fourths vote of the Village Council with or without the consent of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2, 2006, passed 1-12-2006)
§ 32.19 INTERIM FISCAL OFFICER ASSISTANT.
   There is created a position of Interim Fiscal Officer Assistant. The
position will serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and perform duties set forth
by the Mayor. The funds expended for that position will be the same as budgeted
for the Recreational Park Director.
(Ord. 15, 2006, passed 8-24-2006)
CHAPTER 33: MEETINGS AND WORK SESSIONS
Section
   
33.01   Council meetings
   
33.02   Reserved
   
33.03   Board of Public Affairs meetings
   
33.04   Planning Commission meetings
§ 33.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Regular Council meetings are held on the second and fourth Thursday of the
month starting at 7:00 p.m. at the Marblehead Fire Station, 517 West Main
Street, Marblehead, Ohio.
§ 33.02 RESERVED
§ 33.03 BOARD OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS MEETINGS.
   The Board of Public Affairs meetings are held the second Tuesday of the
month starting at 7:00 p.m. at the Marblehead Water Treatment Plant, 106 Water
Street, Marblehead, Ohio.
§ 33.04 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   Planning Commission meetings are held on the first Wednesday of the month
starting at 7:00 p.m. at the Marblehead Fire Station, 517 West Main Street
Marblehead, Ohio 43440.
CHAPTER 34: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Findings
   
34.03   Ohio Ethics Law
   
34.04   Definitions
   
34.05   Enforcement
   
34.06   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
34.07   Severability
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village of Marblehead
Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
§ 34.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the Village of Marblehead finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the village are public trusts.
   (B)   (1)   The vitality and stability of the government of this village
depends upon the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and
appointed officers and employees.
      (2)   Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a village officer or employee, that confidence
is imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this village has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
§ 34.03 OHIO ETHICS LAW.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of Ohio Ethics
Law, which reads as follows:
      No village officer or employee may take any action to purchase or acquire
services or property for the village where they, their family or their business
associates have a financial interest in the service or property. No village
officer or employee may take any action to employ his or her spouse, parents,
grandparents, children, grandchildren, brothers, or sisters and any relatives
who live with the officers or employees. No village officers or employees may
take any official action on matters that will result in a benefit to
themselves, their family members or their business associates.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
§ 34.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the village.
      (2)   The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor
or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer of
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The Village Fiscal Officer;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any village agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Marblehead, Ohio.
   VILLAGE AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority or other entity created,
either individually or jointly, by this village.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
§ 34.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any ethics violations by employees should be reported to their
supervisor.
   (B)   Any ethics violation by department heads or those employees directly
responding to the Mayor shall be made to the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   Any ethics violation by an elected official should be reported
to the Ohio State Ethics Commission.
      (2)   Ohio State Ethics Commission phone number is (614) 466-7090.
   (D)   (1)   Ohio State Ethics Commission can also provide opinions as to
ethical questions by sending them a written request for an opinion before an
action is taken.
      (2)   The Commission can only take complaints after the fact.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
§ 34.06 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the village or any village agency shall
subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any
official authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to
discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate
against any person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise
brings to the attention of Ohio State Ethics Commission or official of the
village any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected violation
of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the village or any village agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false of which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provision of the
Ohio Open Records Act; and
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
§ 34.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is deemed by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unenforceable or unconstitutional, the remaining provisions
of this chapter shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 14, 2005, passed 2-10-2005)
CHAPTER 35: DRUG AND ALCOHOL WORKPLACE PROGRAM
Section
   
35.01   Purpose
   35.02   Statement of policy
   
35.03   Employee awareness and training
   
35.04   Testing
   
35.05   Post incident testing
   
35.06   Employee assistance services
   
35.07   Consequences
   
35.08   Statement of confidentiality/privacy
   
35.09   Status of employees
   
35.10   Voluntary entry into a program
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Village of Marblehead is committed to safety in the
workplace and to the reduction of workplace accidents and injuries.
      (2)   As part of our on-going attempt to increase and promote safety in
the workplace, productivity, accident prevention, loss control and our
commitment to rehabilitation, the Village of Marblehead has adopted this Drug
and Alcohol Free Workplace Program.
      (3)   This program is based upon the Ohio Bureau of Worker's Compensation
Drug Free Workplace Program.
   (B)   (1)   This program reflects the village’s attitude toward alcohol and
drug use in the workplace.
      (2)   Under this program, there is zero tolerance for employees working
while impaired and for on-the-job possession, use or selling of illegal drugs.
      (3)   All levels of employees, including management must abide by this
program.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.02 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Illegal drugs during working hours and on work site.
      (1)   The distribution, possession, sale or use of illegal drugs during
working hours and on all village work site is prohibited.
      (2)   WORK SITE means any office, building or property owned or operated
by the Village of Marblehead or any site at which an employee is to perform
work for the village.
   (B)   Requirements of employees.
      (1)   All employees are required to be fit for work and free from the
effects of alcohol, illegal drugs and the abuse or misuse of prescribed drugs
or over-the-counter drugs at all times during working hours.
      (2)   Employees are responsible for following the instruction of the
prescribing physician when taking prescription medication.
      (3)   Employees are responsible for following the manufacturer's
instructions when taking over-the-counter medication.
   (C)   Standards for positive test. Any employee who has a concentration of
0.04% or more by weight of alcohol in the employee’s blood or has a
concentration of 0.04 of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters
of his or her breath for alcohol will be considered to have a positive test and
will be in violation of the program.
   (D)   Drug paraphernalia prohibited. Drug paraphernalia and items used for
substance abuse are prohibited from the workplace at all times.
   (E)   Employees must sign and read. All employees must sign the
certification and consent form that they have received and read the Drug and
Alcohol Workplace Program.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.03 EMPLOYEE AWARENESS AND TRAINING.
   (A)   The Village's Plan Administrator of the program. The duties of the
Plan Administrator will include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Responsibility for implementing the policy and procedures in the
program;
      (2)   Ensuring the program is communicated to all employees through an
initial presentation prior to the implementation of the program and annually
thereafter;
      (3)   Acting as the resource for employees to obtain assistance and
access to referral services; and
      (4)   Maintaining all records dealing with the program.
   (B)   Employee awareness and training. Employee awareness and training will
include the following.
      (1)   On an annual basis, every employee will receive at least one hour
of education on the program, how it operates, alcohol and drug use/abuse
information, signs and symptoms, effects and dangers of commonly used drugs in
the workplace.
      (2)   All new employees will go through one hour of DFWP orientation,
followed up by one hour of training at the annual training class for all
employees.
   (C)   Supervisor awareness and training. Supervisor awareness and training
will include the following.
      (1)   At least two hours of initial informational and skill-building
sessions, in addition to the annual two hour employee training.
      (2)   For every subsequent program year, supervisors who received the
initial training must receive the one-hour refresher course, also in addition
to the one hour of employee education.
      (3)   New supervisors will receive at least one hour of training within
six weeks of becoming a supervisor, with the remaining training to take place
at the annual training session.
      (4)   Supervisors will receive training prior to the implementation of
any testing.
   (D)   Training. Training will be presented by a qualified educator or a
person supervised by a qualified educator.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.04 TESTING.
   (A)   Testing procedure.
      (1)   The following procedure will be used for all testing under this
program.
         (a)   It is up to the individual to get tested within eight hours for
alcohol and within 24 hours for drugs after an accident.
         (b)   Reasonable suspicion will be at the request of the department
head.
         (c)   1.   In testing for drugs, a urine specimen will be collected
and tested.
            2.   If the screen reveals a positive result, a further test from
the original specimen will automatically be performed through a second, more
detailed test.
         (d)   1.   Where a drug test is being performed due to reasonable
suspicion or a post incident test, the employee will be placed on an unpaid
suspension until confirmation is received from the laboratory.
            2.   If the instant test is negative, the employee will be returned
to work in a non-safety sensitive position until the village receives the final
test result.
         (e)   1.   In testing for alcohol, a breathalyzer test will be
preformed.
            2.   The positive result of 0.04% or greater for alcohol from the
breathalyzer test will constitute a violation of this program.
            3.   An employee may avoid reliance on the breathalyzer test by
voluntarily providing a blood sample within one hour of the time a breathalyzer
sample is collected.
            4.   If a blood sample is provided within one hour and tests below
the 0.04% level, the employee will not be in violation of this program.
            5.   The reference to 0.04% level refers to a concentration of
four-hundredths of one percent or more by weight of alcohol in blood or
concentration of four-hundredths of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per
210 liters of breath.
         (f)   All testing will be performed at and/or by laboratories and
collection sites which are certified by the Department of Health and Human
Services.
      (2)   Employees testing positive for personal prescription of over-the-
counter medications will not be in violation of this program.
      (3)   The village is responsible for all costs associated with testing
under this program.
      (4)   Testing will be required under the following circumstances:
         (a)   Pre-employment testing. All persons receiving an offer of
employment will be tested prior to commencing employment.
         (b)   Post accident testing. Any accidents in performance of village
work with damages over $2,000.
   (B)   Reasonable suspicion. Supervisors who have received training under
this program may require an employee to submit to testing if they have a
reasonable and articulable belief that the employee is using or under the
influence of a substance based on a specific, physical behavioral or
performance indicators.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.05 POST INCIDENT TESTING.
   (A)   Post incident testing. Post incident testing is indicated for any
employee who:
      (1)   May have caused or contributed to an on-the-job incident that
causes $2,000 or more damage;
      (2)   Caused or involved in an OSHA recordable incident at any Marblehead
Village work site;
      (3)   Is involved in any traffic incident while operating a village
vehicle which may have caused or contributed to an accident, which involves a
citation, and causes $2,000 or more damage at any time day or night; or
      (4)   Is cited for driving while intoxicated operating village vehicles
or equipment.
   (B)   Follow-up to treatment of assessment.
      (1)   When an employee has tested positive and/or has received treatment
or assessment under this program, a minimum of two tests or maximum of four
tests in the first year from the date of the employee's return to duty will be
administered.
      (2)   The first test will serve as a return to duty test and occur before
an employee resumes work activities.
      (3)   The others will be done randomly throughout the year.
   (C)   Confidentiality.
      (1)   Test results and other information concerning substance
investigations will be treated confidentially.
      (2)   Test results and other documents relating to investigations and/or
rehabilitative treatment will be kept separate from other personnel records.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.06 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE SERVICES.
   (A)   Assessment service.
      (1)   The village recognizes its commitment and responsibility to
employees by providing an opportunity for employees to deal with drug and
alcohol related problems.
      (2)   The Administrator of the program will provide any employee with an
explanation of available assessment services and a list of resources.
      (3)   Each employee is responsible for paying for any and all services
associated with assessment.
   (B)   Encouragement to voluntarily seek treatment.
      (1)   Employees are encouraged to voluntarily seek assistance with
substance abuse before alcohol and drug problems lead to disciplinary actions.
      (2)   The decision to seek prior assistance will not be used against an
employee in any disciplinary proceeding.
      (3)   The village will support all employees who seek prior assistance by
working with the employee and, where appropriate, granting a reasonable medical
or personal leave of absence.
   (C)   Testing positive.
      (1)   Employees who test positive for drugs or alcohol will receive an
explanation of substance abuse assessment, in addition to appropriate
corrective action.
      (2)   The employee will be provided with a list of qualified substance
abuse assessment resources in the community and will be expected to seek
assistance.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.07 CONSEQUENCES.
   (A)   Consequences of a positive test result.
      (1)   An applicant who refuses to take or who receives a positive test
result from a preemployment test will not be granted employment with the
Village of Marblehead.
      (2)   Any probationary employee who tests positive in the first 90 days
or six months for safety personnel will be immediately discharged.
   (B)   Conditional employment agreement.
      (1)   Any employee testing positive as a result of any test will be
provided with a conditional employment agreement.
      (2)   After signing the conditional employment agreement, the employee
will be temporarily suspended without pay and must consult with a qualified
facility for substance abuse assessment and referral.
      (3)   Time off from work will be treated as an approved medical or
personal leave of absence.
      (4)   Upon returning to work, the employee will be expected to abide by
the conditional employment agreement and will agree to submit to a minimum of
two tests/maximum of four tests at the Village of Marblehead's discretion for a
period of up to twelve months.
   (C)   Responsibility for cost of rehabilitation.
      (1)   Any cost of rehabilitation that is not covered by health insurance
is the responsibility of the employee who receives a positive test.
      (2)   Refusing to sign the conditional employment agreement upon testing
positive will result with immediate discharge.
   (D)   Second positive test result. Any employee receiving a second positive
test result will be immediately discharged if during the conditional employment
agreement period.
   (E)   Refusal to submit to testing. Any refusal to submit to testing upon
the village's request may result in immediate discharge.
   (F)   Possession or sale of illegal drugs on village premises. Possession or
sale of illegal drugs on village premises will result in immediate discharge.
   (G)   Refusal to sign or cooperate. Employees who refuse to sign the
certification form or otherwise cooperate with the village's enforcement of the
program will be immediately discharged.
   (H)   Attempt to hinder, affect, change or falsify. Any attempt to hinder,
affect, change or falsify a specimen for testing will result in immediate
discharge.
   (I)   Violation.
      (1)   A violation of this program will not be reported to law enforcement
officials unless required by a regulatory body or by criminal law provisions.
      (2)   When required, law enforcement authorities may be contacted and
requested to come onto village property in conjunction with a referral for
criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.08 STATEMENT OF CONFIDENTIALITY/PRIVACY.
   (A)   All aspects of any employee assistance or testing procedures are
considered private and will be treated in a confidential manner limited only to
individuals with a right to know.
   (B)   Law enforcement authorities may be contacted and requested to come
onto village property, when appropriate, in conjunction with a referral for
criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.09 STATUS OF EMPLOYEES.
   Nothing in this program alters the employee-at-will relationship existing
between the Village of Marblehead and its employees or affects any other
employment issue.
(Ord. 23, 2003, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 35.10 VOLUNTARY ENTRY INTO A PROGRAM.
   An individual who voluntarily enters into a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program is not subject to discipline for entering into such a program and
further will not be required to enter into a conditional employment agreement
as a result of voluntarily entering such a program.
(Ord. 28, 2003, passed 1-8-2004)
CHAPTER 36: COMPENSATION FOR EMPLOYEES ON TEMPORARY MILITARY DUTY
Section
   
36.01   Leave of absence with pay
   
36.02   Council action
§ 36.01 LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY.
   (A)   Leave of absence with pay.
      (1)   Generally. Any regular employee who is a member of the National
Guard or militia or of the military of the United States, and is required to
undergo field training therein or is called for active duty, shall be granted a
leave of absence with pay for the period of such field training or active duty.
      (2)   Vacation and sick leave.
         (a)   Vacation and sick leave shall only be accrued at the employee's
regular rate during this paid leave.
         (b)   This paid leave of absence shall be in addition to the
employee's vacation leave, but shall not exceed 22 eight-hour work days or 176
hours within one calendar year.
         (c)   An employee on one continuous leave of absence that extends into
a subsequent calendar year or years will receive pay only for one period of 22
work days or 176 hours, not for each year of the same leave.
         (d)   In the case of military leave, paid leave shall mean the
difference between the employee's regular salary and the employee's military
base pay.
         (e)   The employee must submit satisfactory evidence of military pay
in order to receive this benefit.
   (B)   No compensation for leave beyond coverage of this section. The village
shall not compensate an employee for military leave beyond what is covered in
this section.
   (C)   Replacement. This section is intended to replace entirely any
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, including Ohio R.C. § 5923.05 as now
written or later amended, and those provisions shall not apply to any employee
of the village.
(Ord. 16, 2005, passed 5-12-2005)
§ 36.02 COUNCIL ACTION.
   This Council hereby finds and determines that all formal actions relative to
the adoption of this chapter were taken in an open meeting of this Council, and
that all deliberations of Council, and of it's committees, which result in
formal action, were taken in full compliance with applicable legal
requirements.
(Ord. 16, 2005, passed 5-12-2005)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
Transient Occupancy Tax
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Rate of tax
   
37.03   Exemptions
   
37.04   Tax to be separately stated and charged
   
37.05   Registration
   
37.06   Reporting and remitting
   
37.07   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by Village
Fiscal Officer
   
37.08   Appeal
   
37.09   Board of Review
   
37.10   Records
   
37.11   Refunds
   
37.12   Actions to collect
   
37.13   Moneys received; where credited
   
37.14   Separability
   
37.15   Penalties and interest
Watercraft Dockage Tax
   
37.20   Definitions
   
37.21   Imposition of tax
   
37.22   Exemptions
   
37.23   Tax to be separately stated and charged
   
37.24   Registration
   
37.25   Reporting and remitting
   
37.26   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by Fiscal
Officer
   
37.27   Appeal
   
37.28   Board of Review
   
37.29   Records
   
37.30   Refunds
   
37.31   Actions to collect
   
37.32   Moneys received; where credited
   
37.33   Separability
   
37.34   Penalties and interest
Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
37.40   Enactment of tax
   
37.41   Rate of tax
   
37.42   Effective date for tax
 
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRAUD. Any intentional perversion of the truth with the specific intent to
avoid payment of the tax, not finding criminal fraud, would require the
additional finding of willfulness.
   HOTEL.
      (1)   Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out
to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for a
consideration to guests, in which one or more rooms are used for the
accommodation, whether the rooms are in one or several structures.
      (2)   The term HOTEL may also include inns, bed and breakfast inns,
motels, cabins and condominiums even though they may not use the term hotel.
   OCCUPANCY.
      (1)   The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms, or space or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging
or sleeping purposes.
      (2)   The use or possession or right to use or possess any room or any
suite of connecting rooms as office space, banquet or private dining rooms, or
exhibit, sample or display space shall not be considered occupancy within the
meaning of this definition, unless the person exercising occupancy uses or
possesses, or has the right to use or possess, all or any portion of the room
or suite of rooms for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes.
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, agent, rental manager or
any other capacity.
      (2)   Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing
agent of any type or character, other than an employee, the managing agent
shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this subchapter, and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal.
      (3)   Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter by either the
principal or the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance
by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which the
occupant is liable for the occupancy without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
   TREASURER. The Village Fiscal Officer of the Village of Marblehead.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Hotel defined, see Ohio R.C. § 5739.01(M)
   Transient guest defined, see Ohio R.C. § 5739.01(N)
§ 37.02 RATE OF TAX.
   (A)   Rate. Commencing on January 1, 1991, for the purpose of providing
revenue with which to meet the needs of the village for general operating
expenses, there is levied a tax of 3% on all rents received by a hotel for
lodging furnished to transient guests.
   (B)   Tax constitutes a debt.
      (1)   This tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient guest to the
village, which is extinguished only by payment to the operator as trustee for
the village, or to the village.
      (2)   The transient guest shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel
at the time the rent is paid.
      (3)   If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment.
      (4)   The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient guest ceasing to
occupy space in the hotel.
      (5)   If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the
hotel, the Fiscal Officer may require that the tax be paid directly to the
Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No tax shall be imposed under this subchapter:
      (1)   Upon rents not within the taxing power of the village under the
Constitution or laws of Ohio or the United States;
      (2)   Upon rents paid by the State of Ohio, or any of its political
subdivisions; or
      (3)   Upon rents of $5 a day or less.
   (B)    Claims.
      (1)   No exemption claimed under divisions (A)(1) or (2) above of this
section shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is
collected, and, under penalty of perjury, upon a form prescribed by the Fiscal
Officer.
      (2)   All claims of exemption under division (A)(3) above of this section
shall be made in the manner prescribed by the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 37.04 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (A)   The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from
the rent, and shown separately on any record thereof, at the time when the
occupancy is arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of
occupancy, or any bill or statement or charge made for an occupancy issued or
delivered by the operator, and the tax shall be paid by the occupant to the
operator as trustee for and on account of the village, and the operator shall
be liable for the collection thereof and for the tax.
   (B)   No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether
directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or
absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if
added, any part will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.05 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, or within
30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any
hotel renting lodging to transient guests shall register the hotel with the
Fiscal Officer, and obtain from him or her a transient occupancy registration
certificate, to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (A)   The name of the operator;
      (B)   The address of the hotel;
      (C)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (D)   "This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
Transient Occupancy Tax Subchapter by registering with the Fiscal Officer for
the purpose of collecting from transient guests the transient occupancy tax and
remitting the tax to the Fiscal Officer. This certificate does not constitute a
permit."
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.06 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the close of each calendar quarter, make a return to the Fiscal Officer, on
forms provided by the Fiscal Officer, of the total rents charged and received,
and the amount of tax collected from transient occupancies.
   (B)   All claims for exemption from the tax filed by occupants with the
operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the report.
   (C)   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
shall be remitted to the Fiscal Officer.
   (D)   The Fiscal Officer may establish shorter reporting periods for any
certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to insure
collection of the tax, and he or she may require further information in the
return if the information is pertinent to the collection of the tax.
   (E)   Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business
for any reason.
   (F)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this subchapter shall be
held in trust for the account of the village until payment thereof is made to
the Fiscal Officer.
   (G)   All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be treated
as confidential by the Fiscal Officer, and shall not be released by him or her
except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or to an officer or
agent of the United States, the State of Ohio, the County of Ottawa, or the
Village of Marblehead, for official use only.
   (H)   Any information gained as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this subchapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes as set forth in this subchapter, and
except in accordance with proper judicial order.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.07 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY VILLAGE
FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make,
within the time provided in this subchapter, any report and remittance of the
tax, or any portion thereof required by this subchapter, the Fiscal Officer
shall proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due.
   (B)   As soon as the Fiscal Officer shall procure such facts and information
upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this subchapter, and
payable by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to
make a report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess
against the operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this
subchapter.
   (C)   In case such determination is made, the Fiscal Officer shall give
notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally, or by depositing it
in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so
assessed at his or her last known place of business.
   (D)   The operator may, within 10 days after the serving or mailing of the
notice, make application in writing to the Fiscal Officer for a hearing on the
amount assessed.
   (E)   If an application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest, and penalties, if any, determined by the
Fiscal Officer, shall become final and conclusive, and immediately due and
payable.
   (F)   If an application is made, the Fiscal Officer shall give not less than
five days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to
show cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the amount specified
therein should not be fixed for the tax, interest and penalties.
   (G)   At the hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why the
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed.
   (H)   After the hearing, the Fiscal Officer shall determine the proper tax
to be remitted, herein of the determination and the amount of the tax, interest
and penalties.
   (I)   The amount determined to be due shall be payable after 15 days, unless
an appeal is taken as provided in §
37.08.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.999
§ 37.08 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Fiscal Officer with
respect to the amount of tax, interest, penalties and determination of fraud,
if any, may appeal to the Board of Review by filing a notice of appeal with the
Fiscal Officer within 15 days of the serving or mailing of the determination of
the tax due.
   (B)   The Board of Review shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal,
and shall give notice in writing to the operator at his or her last known place
of address.
   (C)   The findings of the Board of Review shall be served upon the appellant
in the manner prescribed above for service of a notice of hearing.
   (D)   Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon
the service of notice.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 37.09 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Creation.
      (1)   A Board of Review, consisting of a Chairperson and two other
individuals who are not serving in an elected position with the village each to
be appointed by the Mayor of the Village of Marblehead and approved by Village
Council, is hereby created.
      (2)   The Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a
record of its transactions.
      (3)   Any hearings by the Board shall be conducted according to the Ohio
Open Meetings Law.
   (B)   Board duties.
      (1)   The Board shall hear and pass on appeals from any ruling or
decision of the Fiscal Officer, and at the request of the operator, person, or
Fiscal Officer, is empowered to substitute alternate methods of allocation.
      (2)   The Board shall, in hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse
or modify any such ruling or decision, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 37.10 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the village of any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and preserve, for
a period of three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and
payment to the village, which records the Fiscal Officer shall have the right
to inspect at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.11 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been
overpaid, or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the village under this subchapter, it may be refunded
as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below of this section, provided a claim in
writing therefor, stating, under penalty of perjury, the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded, is filed with the Fiscal Officer within three years
of the date of payment.
      (2)   The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   Non-transient guest. An operator may claim a refund or take as a
credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than
once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established
in a manner prescribed by the Fiscal Officer that the person from whom the tax
has been collected was not a transient guest; provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected
has either been refunded to the transient guest or credited to rent
subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.
   (C)   Transient guest. A transient guest may obtain a refund of taxes
overpaid, or paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the village, by filing a claim in the manner provided in division
(A) above of this section, but only when the tax was paid by the transient
guest directly to the Fiscal Officer, or when the transient guest, having paid
the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Fiscal Officer
that the transient guest has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator
who collected the tax.
   (D)   No payment of refund. No refund shall be paid under the provisions of
this section unless the claimant established his or her right thereto by
written records showing entitlement thereto.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 37.12 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Any tax required to be paid by a transient guest under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guest to the
village.
   (B)   Any tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the
village shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator the village.
   (C)   Any person owing money to the village under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the Village of
Marblehead for the recovery of the amount.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.13 MONEYS RECEIVED; WHERE CREDITED.
   The moneys received under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
credited to the general fund of the village.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 37.14 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
subchapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 13, 1990, passed 9-10-1990; Am. Ord. 18, 2004, passed 12-9-2004)
§ 37.15 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of the amount
of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (B)   Fraud. If the Fiscal Officer determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25 % of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in division (A) hereof.
   (C)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 1 % per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax exclusive
of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent
until paid.
   (D)   Penalties during pendency of hearing or appeal. No penalty provided
under the terms of this chapter shall be imposed during the pendency of any
hearing provided for in §
37.07, nor during the pendency of any appeal to the Board of Review provided
for in §
37.08.
   (E)   Abatement of interest and penalty. In cases where a return has been
filed in good faith, and an assessment has been paid within the time prescribed
by the Fiscal Officer, the Fiscal Officer may abate any charge of penalty or
interest, or both.
(Ord. 10, 2017, passed 11-8-2017)
WATERCRAFT DOCKAGE TAX
§ 37.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOCK. Any structure or surface, such as a pier, wharf, bank of a river, bank
of a canal, shore of a lake or bay, alongside of which, or within which a
watercraft may lie.
   MARINA. A boat basin that has docks or moorings for seven or more
watercraft.
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   The person who is proprietor of a marina whether in the capacity of
owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, any other capacity.
      (2)   Where the OPERATOR performs his or her functions through a managing
agent of any type or character, other than an employee, the managing agent
shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this subchapter and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal.
      (3)   Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter by either the
principal or the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance
by both.
   OWNER OF WATERCRAFT. Includes any person who claims lawful possession of a
watercraft by virtue of legal title or equitable interest therein which
entitled him or her to such possession.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as
a unit.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in
the ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
   TREASURER. The Fiscal Officer of the Village of Marblehead.
   WATERCRAFT. Has the same meaning as is set forth in Ohio R.C. § 1547.01.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.21 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Rate. Commencing on January 1, 1991 for the purpose of providing
revenue with which to meet the needs of the village for general operating
expenses, there is levied an annual tax of $15 on each watercraft that is
docked within the Village of Marblehead.
   (B)    Tax constitutes a debt.
      (1)   This tax constitutes a debt owed by the owner of a watercraft to
the Village of Marblehead, which is extinguished only by payment to an operator
as trustee for the village directly.
      (2)   The owner of a watercraft shall pay the tax to the operator of a
marina at the time he or she pays his or her dock rent.
      (3)   If such rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with the installment.
      (4)   If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of a
marina, the Fiscal Officer may require that the tax be paid directly to the
Fiscal Officer.
   (C)    Non-marina user. Any person who owns his or her own dock rack, or who
docks his or her watercraft at a dock which is not located in a marina, shall
pay his or her tax directly to the Fiscal Officer of the Village of Marblehead
and the tax shall be paid in full no later than July 1 of each year.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   No tax shall be imposed under this subchapter on watercraft owned by the
Village of Marblehead, the State of Ohio or the United States of America.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.23 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (A)    The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from
the dock rent charged by an operator, and shown separately on any record
thereof, on any bill or statement or charge made for the rent issued or
delivered by the operator, and the tax shall be paid by the owner of the
watercraft to the operator as trustee for and on account of the village, and
the operator shall be liable for the collection thereof and for the tax.
   (B)   No operator of a marina shall advertise or state in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the
dockage rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.24 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, or within
30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of a
marina shall register the marina with the Fiscal Officer, and obtain from him
or her a dock registration certificate, to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   The certificate shall among other things, state the following:
      (1)    The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the marina;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   “This dock registration certificate signifies that the person named
on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Dock and Tax
Subchapter by registering with the Fiscal Officer for the purpose of collecting
from owners of watercraft the dock tax and remitting the tax to the Fiscal
Officer. This certificate does not constitute a permit.”
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.25 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   (1)   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter, make a return to the Fiscal
Officer, on forms provided by him or her, of the total amount of the tax
collected.
      (2)   All claims for exemption from the tax filed by owners of watercraft
with the operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the report.
      (3)   At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax
collected shall be remitted to the Fiscal Officer.
      (4)   The Fiscal Officer may establish shorter reporting periods for any
certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to insure
collection of the tax, and he or she may require further information in the
return if the information is pertinent to the collection of the tax.
      (5)   Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business
for any reason.
      (6)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this subchapter shall
be held in trust for the account of the village until payment thereof is made
to the Fiscal Officer.
      (7)   All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be
treated as confidential by the Fiscal Officer, and shall not be released by him
or her except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or to an officer
or agent of the United States, the State of Ohio, the County of Ottawa or the
Village of Marblehead, for official use only.
   (B)   (1)   Any information gained as a result of any returns,
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by this
subchapter shall be confidential, except for official purposes as set forth
above, and except in accordance with proper judicial order.
      (2)   Any person divulging such information in violation of this
subchapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to a fine or penalty of note more than $500 or imprisoned
for not more than 6 months, or both.
      (3)   Each disclosure shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to the above penalty, any employee of the Village of
Marblehead who violates the provisions of this section relative to the
disclosure of confidential information shall be guilty of an offense punishable
by immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.26 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY FISCAL
OFFICER.
   (A)   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make,
within the time provided in this subchapter, any report and remittance of the
tax, or any portion thereof required by this subchapter, the Fiscal Officer
shall proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due.
   (B)   As soon as the Fiscal Officer shall procure such facts and information
upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this subchapter, and
payable by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to
make a report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess
against the operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this
subchapter.
   (C)   In case such determination is made, the Fiscal Officer shall give
notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally, or by depositing it
in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so
assessed at his or her last known place of address.
   (D)   The operator may, within 10 days after the serving or mailing of the
notice, make application in writing to the Fiscal Officer for a hearing on the
amount assessed.
   (E)   If an application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest, and penalties, if any, determined by the
Fiscal Officer, shall become final and conclusive, and immediately due and
payable.
   (F)   If an application is made, the Fiscal Officer shall give not less than
5 days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show
cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein
should not be fixed for the tax, interest and penalties.
   (G)   At the hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why the
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed.
   (H)   After the hearing, the Fiscal Officer shall determine the proper tax
to be remitted, and shall give written notice to the person in the manner
prescribed herein of the determination and the amount of the tax, interest and
penalties.
   (I)   The amount determined to be due shall be payable after 15 days, unless
an appeal is taken as provided in §
37.08.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.27 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Fiscal Officer with
respect to the amount of the tax, interest, and penalties, if any, may appeal
to the Board of Review by filing a notice of appeal with the Fiscal Officer
within 15 days of the serving or mailing of the determination of the tax due.
   (B)   The Board of Review shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal,
and shall give notice in writing to the operator at his or her last known place
of address.
   (C)   The findings of the Board of Review shall be served upon the appellant
in the manner prescribed above for service of a notice of hearing.
   (D)   Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon
the service of notice.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.28 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Creation.
      (1)   A Board of Review, consisting of a Chairperson and 2 other
individuals who are not serving in an elected position with the village each to
be appointed by the Mayor of the Village of Marblehead and approved by Village
Council, is hereby created.
      (2)   The Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a
record of its transactions.
      (3)   Any hearing by the Board may be conducted privately and the
provisions of § 38.06 hereof with reference to the confidential character of
information required to be disclosed by this subchapter shall apply to such
matters as may be heard before the Board on appeal.
   (B)   Board duties.
      (1)   The Board shall hear and pass on appeals from any ruling or
decision of the Fiscal Officer, and at the request of the operator, person or
Fiscal Officer, is empowered to substitute alternate methods of allocation.
      (2)   The Board shall, in hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse
or modify any such ruling or decision, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.29 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the village of any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and preserve, for
a period of 3 years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the
village, which records the Fiscal Officer shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.30 REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been
overpaid, or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or, received by the village under this subchapter, it may be refunded
as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below of this section, provided a claim in
writing therefor, stating, under penalty of perjury, the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded, is filed with the Fiscal Officer within 3 years of
the date of payment.
      (2)   The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   An operator may claim a refund or take as a credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Fiscal Officer that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not the owner of a watercraft; provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected
has been refunded to the owner of the watercraft.
   (C)   An owner of a watercraft may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, or
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
village, by filing a claim in the manner provided in division (A ) above of
this section, but only when the tax was paid by the owner of the watercraft
directly to the Fiscal Officer, or when the owner of the watercraft, having
paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Fiscal
Officer that the owner of the watercraft has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by evidence showing
entitlement thereto.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.31 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Any tax required to be paid by a owner of a watercraft under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the owner of a
watercraft to the village.
   (B)   Any tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the
village shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the village.
   (C)   Any person owing money to the village under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the Village of
Marblehead for the recovery of the amount.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.32 MONEYS RECEIVED; WHERE CREDITED.
   The moneys received under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
credited to the general fund of the village.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.33 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
subchapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 14, 1990, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 37.34 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Delinquency. Any operator or owner of watercraft who fails to remit
any tax imposed by this chapter within the lime required shall pay a penalty
equal to 10% of the amount of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (B)   Fraud. If the Fiscal Officer determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25 % of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in division (A).;
   (C)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
or owner of watercraft who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall
pay interest: at the rate of 1 % per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount
of the tax exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent until paid.
   (D)   Penalties during pendency of hearing or appeal. No penalty provided
under the terms of this chapter shall be imposed during the pendency of appeal
to the Board of Review provided for in §
37.27.
   (E)   Abatement of interest and penalty. In cases where a return has been
filed in good faith, and an assessment has been paid within the time prescribed
by the Fiscal Officer, the Fiscal Officer may abate any charge of penalty or
interest, or both.
(Ord. 14, 2017, passed 12-27-2017)
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 37.40 ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   The village hereby enacts a motor vehicle license tax pursuant to R.C. §
4504.171 for the purpose of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and
administering the tax provided for in this section; to supplement revenue
already available to municipal corporations under R.C. §§ 4504.04, 4504.06,
4504.17, or 4504.172, and to provide additional revenue for the purposes set
forth in those sections, including the repair, construction and maintenance of
roads, bridges and viaducts.
(Ord. 4, 2017, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 37.41 RATE OF TAX.
   The tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and every motor
vehicle the district of registration of which, as defined in R.C. § 4503.10, is
the Village of Marblehead, Ohio. As used in this subchapter the term MOTOR
VEHICLE means any and all vehicles included within the definition of motor
vehicle in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and 4505.01.
(Ord. 4, 2017, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 37.42 EFFECTIVE DATE FOR TAX.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall apply to and be in effect for the
registration year commencing January 1, 2018 and shall continue in effect and
application during each registration year thereafter. The tax imposed by this
subchapter shall be paid to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles of the State of
Ohio or to a Deputy Registrar at the time application for registration of a
motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. § 4501.10.
(Ord. 4, 2017, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more
than $500, or by imprisonment for a period of not more than 6 months, or both.
If the person violating any provision of this chapter is an organization of any
type, the penalty is a fine of not more than $3,000.
   (B)   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as
required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or
refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Fiscal
Officer, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and is punishable as aforesaid. Any person, required to make,
render, sign, or verify any report or claim, who makes a false or fraudulent
report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount
due required by this chapter to be made, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is
punishable as aforesaid.
(Ord. 10, 2017, passed 11-8-2017)
CHAPTER 38: FINANCES
Section
   
38.01   Two signatures on all village checks
   
38.02   Contracts to lowest responsive and responsible bidder
   
38.03   Investment Policy
   
38.04   Safety deposit box
   
38.05   Law Enforcement Fund
§ 38.01 TWO SIGNATURES ON ALL VILLAGE CHECKS.
   (A)   All disbursements of village funds shall be made by check drawn to the
account of the village and all checks shall bear the signature of the Mayor and
Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   In the event either the Mayor or the Fiscal Officer are absent from
the village or otherwise unavailable to sign village checks, then and in that
event, the President Pro Tem is authorized to sign village checks for the Mayor
and the Chairperson of the Council Finance Committee is authorized to sign for
the Fiscal Officer.
(Res. 3, 1988, passed 3-14-1988; Am. Res. 5, 1988, passed 5-9-1988)
§ 38.02 CONTRACTS TO LOWEST RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   Responsive. A bidder on a contract shall be considered responsive if
the proposal responds to bid specifications in all material respects and
contains no irregularities or deviations from the specifications which would
affect the amount of the bid or otherwise give the bidder a competitive
advantage.
   (B)   Responsible. The factors that the village shall consider in
determining whether a bidder on the contract is responsible include the
following:
      (1)   The bidder’s experience.
      (2)   The bidder’s financial condition.
      (3)   The bidder’s conduct and performance on previous contracts.
      (4)   The bidder’s facilities.
      (5)   The bidder’s management skills.
      (6)   The bidder’s ability to execute the contract properly.
(Ord. 30, 2001, passed 11-8-2001)
§ 38.03 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The Investment Policy of the village, which is on file with the Fiscal
Officer, is hereby approved and confirmed as the Investment Policy of the
village.
(Ord. 5, 1997, passed 2-13-1997)
§ 38.04 SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX.
   The Mayor and the Fiscal Officer are hereby designated as the village
officials to be listed as having access to the village safety box at the
Marblehead Bank.
(Ord. 9, 1988, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 38.05 LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   There is established a special revenued fund designated as the Law
Enforcement Fund further to be known as Fund No. B20.
(Ord. 20, 1992, passed 8-13-1992)
CHAPTER 39: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   (Reserved)
Fire Department
   
39.15   Regulations adopted
Police Department
   
39.25   Waiver of residency for Chief of Police
   
39.26   Deputy Marshals
   
39.27   Auxiliary Police
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 (RESERVED)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 39.15 REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Marblehead Volunteer Fire Department regulations are hereby adopted by
reference.
(Res. 2, 2000, passed 4-13-2000; Am. Res. 3, 2000, passed 4-13-2000)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 39.25 WAIVER OF RESIDENCY FOR CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The residency requirement set forth in Ohio R.C. § 737.15 is hereby waived
for the current Chief of Police, and the current Chief of Police only. The
current Chief of Police, Chief Casey Joy, does not to reside within the
village, but must reside within the limits of Ottawa County, Ohio.
(Ord. 27, 2005, passed 9-8-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2016, passed 5-25-2016)
§ 39.26 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to appoint Deputy Marshals with the
confirmation of the Council.
   (B)   The salary of the Deputy Marshals shall be as determined by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 8, 2015, passed 6-24-2015)
§ 39.27 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint Auxiliary Police and remove the same and
prescribe rules and regulations as to their training, administration, control
and conduct.
   (B)   The salary of the Auxiliary Police shall be as determined by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 8, 2015, passed 6-24-2015; Am. Ord. 9, 2015, passed 8-12-2015)
CHAPTER 40: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
Public Records Policy
   
40.01   Introduction
   
40.02   Public records defined; organization
   
40.03   Record requests
   
40.04   Costs for public records
   
40.05   E-mail
   
40.06   Failure to respond to a public records request
Driving Rules and Regulations for the Village
   
40.20   Driving record acceptability
   
40.21   General rules and regulations
   
40.22   Vehicle inspections and maintenance
Red Flag Policy
   
40.30   Adoption by reference
Storage, Use and Distribution of Personal Information Policy
   
40.40   Background
   
40.41   Purpose
   
40.42   Scope
   
40.43   Policy
   
40.44   Policy administration
   
40.45   Who may access personal information
   
40.46   Disciplinary measures for unauthorized use of the information
Hiring Policy
   
40.50   Hiring policy for all village departments
PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
§ 40.01 INTRODUCTION.
   It is the policy of the Village of Marblehead that openness leads to a
better informed citizenry, which leads to better government and better public
policy. It is the policy of the Village of Marblehead to strictly adhere to the
state's Public Records Act. All exemptions to openness are to be construed in
their narrowest sense and any denial of public records in response to a valid
request must be accompanied by an explanation, including legal authority, as
outlined in the Ohio Revised Code. If the request is in writing, the
explanation must also be in writing.
(Ord. 4, 2008, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 40.02 PUBLIC RECORDS DEFINED; ORGANIZATION
   (A)   The Village of Marblehead, in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code,
defines records as including the following: Any document - paper, electronic
(including, but not limited to, e-mail), or other format - that is created or
received by, or comes under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents
the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or
other activities of the office. All records of The Village of Marblehead are
public unless they are specifically exempt from disclosure under the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (B)   It is the policy of the Village of Marblehead that, as required by
Ohio law, records will be organized and maintained so that they are readily
available for inspection and copying (see §
40.05 for the e-mail record policy). Record retention schedules are to be
updated regularly and posted prominently.
(Ord. 4, 2008, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 40.03 RECORD REQUESTS.
   Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using the
following guidelines:
   (A)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the public office to identify, retrieve, and review the records. If it
is not clear what records are being sought, the records custodian must contact
the requester for clarification, and should assist the requestor in revising
the request by informing the requestor of the manner in which the office keeps
its records.
   (B)   The requester does not have to put a records request in writing, and
does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record. It is this office's general policy that this
information is not to be requested.
   (C)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. "Prompt" and "reasonable”
take into account the volume of records requested; the proximity of the
location where the records are stored; and the necessity for any legal review
of the records requested.
   (D)   (1)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. Routine requests for records should be
satisfied immediately if feasible to do so. Routine requests include, but are
not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
information, forms and applications, personnel rosters, etc. If fewer than 20
pages of copies are requested or if the records are readily available in an
electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should be
made as quickly as the equipment allows.
      (2)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied (see
division (D)(1) above) or be acknowledged in writing by the (public office)
within three business days following the office's receipt of the request. If a
request is deemed significantly beyond "routine," such as seeking a voluminous
number of copies or requiring extensive research, the acknowledgement must
include the following:
         (a)   An estimated number of business days it will take to satisfy the
request.
         (b)   An estimated cost if copies are requested.
         (c)   Any items within the request that may be exempt from disclosure.
   (E)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and portions are
exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest released. If there
are redactions, each redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation,
including legal authority.
(Ord. 4, 2008, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 40.04 COSTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of making
copies.
   (A)   The charge for paper copies is $0.10 per side of each page.
   (B)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1 per
disc.
   (C)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
   (D)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
(Ord. 4, 2008, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 40.05 E-MAIL.
   Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined by the Ohio
Revised Code when their content relates to the business of the office. E-mail
is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other formats and should
follow the same retention schedules.
   (A)   Records in private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business are
subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of this office are
instructed to retain their e-mails that relate to public business (see §
40.02) and to copy them to their business e-mail accounts and/or to the
office's records custodian.
   (B)   The records custodian is to treat the e-mails from private accounts as
records of the public office, filing them in the appropriate way, retaining
them per established schedules and making them available for inspection and
copying in accordance with the Public Records Act.
(Ord. 4, 2008, passed 2-14-2008)
§ 40.06 FAILURE TO RESPOND TO A PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   The Village of Marblehead recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of
failure to properly respond to a public records request. In addition to the
distrust in government that failure to comply may cause, the public office's
failure to comply with a request may result in a court ordering the public
office to comply with the law and to pay the requester attorney's fees and
damages.
(Ord. 4, 2008, passed 2-14-2008)
DRIVING RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE VILLAGE
§ 40.20 DRIVING RECORD ACCEPTABILITY.
   Any employee who drives a Village of Marblehead or personal vehicle while in
the employ of the Village of Marblehead must have a current, valid Ohio
driver's license appropriate for the vehicle being driven. The Police
Department will obtain Motor Vehicle Records on all employees who drive village
vehicles once every year. Employees without valid licenses will be suspended
from driving until the license has been reinstated.
(Ord. 13, 2008, passed 8-14-2008)
§ 40.21 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No employee under the age of 18 is allowed to drive Village of
Marblehead owned or personal vehicles during the course of their employment.
   (B)   Authorization for temporary/seasonal employees to operate vehicles
shall be limited where practical. However, if authorized, these employees must
be approved by the Village of Marblehead.
   (C)   Any employee who operates a vehicle on a regular or occasional basis
is required to report any license suspension or revocation, including those
that result from the operation of personal vehicles, to the Village of
Marblehead. Likewise, all accidents or moving violations must be reported to
the Village of Marblehead.
   (D)   Drivers will not operate vehicles when under the influence of alcohol
or illicit and/or driving impairing drugs.
   (E)   Flasher lights on trucks, cars and equipment should be used as
emergency or work conditions require. Flasher lights are not to be used as an
excuse to gain the right of way or to break traffic rules.
   (F)   All traffic laws of the State of Ohio, including signs and speed
limits and wearing of seat belt and shoulder harnesses, will be obeyed.
   (G)   Employees driving vehicles during their employment are responsible for
insuring that the vehicle is properly maintained and in a generally safe
operating condition.
   (H)   Employees shall not transport passengers in village vehicles except
for those who are employees of the Village of Marblehead or are conducting
business with or on behalf of the Village of Marblehead.
   (I)   No one is permitted to ride outside the passenger compartment when a
vehicle is in motion.
   (J)   Employees driving personal vehicles while in the employ of the Village
of Marblehead will maintain primary automobile liability insurance coverage on
the vehicle being driven. State required minimum bodily injury/physical damage
limits must be maintained.
   (K)   Personal vehicles will not be used to pull trailers or haul equipment
while being used in Village of Marblehead related business.
   (L)   Backing of vehicles should be discouraged given the rate of accidents
that take place during this operation. No vehicles should be backed up unless
the driver cannot avoid it and he or she has a clear view of the entire area to
be backed into. If such a view is not present, the driver, if alone, will get
out of the vehicle and inspect the area to be backed into or, if a second
person is in the vehicle, the second person will get out and guide the driver
using appropriate hand and/or voice signals.
(Ord. 13, 2008, passed 8-14-2008)
§ 40.22 VEHICLE INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   Village of Marblehead owned vehicles will be inspected on at least a
quarterly basis. Records of these inspections will be maintained. All Village
of Marblehead owned vehicles are to be maintained according to the
manufacturer's specifications. Records of this maintenance activity are to be
retained.
(Ord. 13, 2008, passed 8-14-2008)
RED FLAG POLICY
§ 40.30 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Red Flag Policy attached to Resolution 9, 2009 is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein.
(Res. 9, 2009, passed 10-22-2009)
STORAGE, USE AND DISTRIBUTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION POLICY
§ 40.40 BACKGROUND.
   This administrative instruction establishes the policy of the Village of
Marblehead, Ohio with regard to accessing confidential personal information by
village employees and contractors which are maintained in the village offices.
This policy will adhere to the requirements in R.C. § 1347.05 which lists
requirements related to personal information systems maintained by state and
local agencies.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 40.41 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village adopts this storage, use and distribution of personal
information policy to help protect employees, customers, contractors, and the
village from damages related to the loss or misuse of sensitive information.
   (B)   This policy will:
      (1)   Define personal information;
      (2)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on paper;
      (3)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed; and
      (4)   Place the village in compliance with state and federal law
regarding identity theft protection.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 40.42 SCOPE.
   This policy and protection program applies to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the village, including all
personnel affiliated with third parties.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 40.43 POLICY.
   (A)   Storage, use and distribution of personal information policy.
      (1)   Definition of PERSONAL INFORMATION AND SENSITIVE PERSONALLY
IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION.
         (a)   Personal information includes the following items whether stored
in electronic or printed format: Names, Social Security numbers, resumes,
correspondence, addresses, phone numbers, driver's license numbers, state
identification numbers, professional license numbers, financial account
information, medical and health information, physical characteristics and other
biometric information, tax information, education information, individuals' job
classifications and salary information, performance evaluations, employment
application forms, timesheets.
         (b)   Sensitive personally identifiable information includes the
following items whether stored in electronic or printed format: Social Security
numbers, a person's financial account numbers and information, beneficiary
information, tax information, employee voluntary withholdings, passwords,
employee home addresses and phone numbers, security challenge questions and
answers, employees' non-village email addresses, medical and health
information, fingerprints and other biometric information, driver's license
numbers, state ID numbers (as issued by the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles),
military information, and/or any other confidential personal information as
described in R.C. § 1347.15.
      (2)   Hard copy distribution. Each employee and contractor performing
work for the village will comply with the following policies:
         (a)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other
storage space containing documents with personal information will be locked at
the end of the workday or when unsupervised. The Fiscal Officer's doors will
remain locked when the Fiscal Officer is not present.
         (b)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information
and record retention areas will be locked at the end of the workday or when
unsupervised.
         (c)   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing personal
information when not in use.
         (d)   White boards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets, etc. in common
shared work areas will be erased, removed, or shredded when not in use.
         (e)   When documents containing personal information are discarded
they will be immediately shredded using an approved shredding device. Village
records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance with the village's record
retention policy.
      (3)   Electronic distribution. Each employee and contractor performing
work for the village will comply with the following policies:
         (a)   Any personal information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients.
         (b)   An email containing confidential personal information must
contain the following statement: "This message may contain confidential and/or
proprietary information and is intended for the person/entity to whom it was
originally addressed. Any use by others is strictly prohibited."
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 40.44 POLICY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Involvement of management.
      (1)   The storage, use and distribution of personal information policy is
the responsibility of the governing body. Approval of the initial plan must be
appropriately documented and maintained.
      (2)   Operational responsibility of the program is delegated to the
Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 40.45 WHO MAY ACCESS PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Employees may access their own personnel files with reasonable notice
to the Fiscal Officer.
   (B)   If the employee objects to any item in the personnel file, the
employee may provide written clarification or explanatory response for
inclusion in the file to the Mayor.
   (C)   Employees may request copies of items in their personnel file.
   (D)   Requests for information from the public will be answered in
accordance with the State of Ohio's Public Record Law.
   (E)   If under the public records act, a person other than the employee,
Fiscal Officer, department head, or member of the governing board makes a
request to inspect an employee's personnel records, the employee will be
notified of the date and time of the inspection and given an opportunity to
review the file or information prior to inspection.
   (F)   Nothing in this policy restricts the release of public records.
Personally identifiable information is only sensitive if Ohio law gives
discretion on its release.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 40.46 DISCIPLINARY MEASURES FOR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Disciplinary measures.
      (1)   The Mayor will decide the disciplinary measures for anyone who
abuses this policy.
      (2)   Even though appropriate safeguards are established for protecting
confidentiality of personal information, it is possible that a village employee
might gain access for invalid access and invalid reasons. Should an incident of
invalid access occur, the Fiscal Officer will advise the individual whose
information was invalidly accessed of the breach of confidentiality as soon as
reasonably possible. The Fiscal Officer will report this matter to the Mayor
for discipline.
(Ord. 5, 2014, passed 8-14-2014)
HIRING POLICY
§ 40.50 HIRING POLICY FOR ALL VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS.
   Before any village department hires an employee, the following procedure
shall be followed:
   (A)   Once the supervisor of the hiring department is given approval by
their governing body to fill a position, the Fiscal Officer and the supervisor
will ensure the job description is current and the position to be filled exists
in the pay ordinance.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall solely advertise the open position in a
publication, website or other media, or combination of these, most likely to
attract qualified applicants. The publication, website or other media should be
determined by the supervisor of the hiring department and provided to the
Fiscal Officer with additional input/suggestions from the Fiscal Officer and
the supervisor's governing body.
   (C)   All applications responsive to the advertisement for employment sent
to the village shall be submitted to the Fiscal Office where a file will be
kept regardless of the department.
   (D)   The supervisor of the department that is hiring shall have access to
the responses to the advertisement for employment at any time and must obtain a
complete copy of the file within five business days after the period to respond
to the advertisement for employment has expired.
   (E)   The supervisor of the department that is hiring will review all
applications and select the most qualified applicants to interview.
   (F)   The supervisor of the department that is hiring will prepare a list of
job specific questions to be asked of all interviewees and shall be the
supervisor who conducts the interviews. A standard base list of general
questions held by the Fiscal Office may also be included and used in this
interview process.
   (G)   The Fiscal Officer will provide a current Benefit Fact Sheet to the
Interviewing supervisor that lists all employee benefits, such as available
health insurance, an overview of vacation time, sick time, overtime and when
the benefits would be available for the applicant should they be hired and any
other important benefit information.
   (H)   The interviewing supervisor will arrange for the time and date of the
interviews for all applicants selected in division (E) of this section.
   (I)   The interviewing supervisor may conduct the interview in executive
session of a properly noticed meeting of the Village Council or the Board of
Public Affairs. If the interviews are not held in executive session of a
properly noticed meeting of the Village Council or the Board of Public Affairs,
the direct supervisor shall consult their governing group to determine if a
Council Member, the Mayor or one Board of Public Affairs member should
participate in the interview. No more than one person from an elected body will
be permitted to participate in interviews outside of an Executive Session to
ensure compliance with the Ohio Open Meeting Laws. The interviewing for
department head or administrative positions will fall under the jurisdiction of
the Mayor or President of the Board of Public Affairs depending on the
position. The Mayor or President may deem council, committee or board
participation in the interview process and will follow compliance with the Ohio
Open Meetings Laws.
   (J)   At the interview, the interviewing supervisor and any other properly
authorized village representative shall conduct the interview with the
universal questions established in division (F) of this section and make notes
pertaining to each interview. The interviewing supervisor shall explain the job
description, hours the applicant would be expected to work and the Chain of
Command to the applicant. The interviewing supervisor will provide a copy of
the Benefit Fact Sheet and review the Benefit Fact Sheet with the applicant.
The interviewing supervisor and any other person authorized to participate in
the interview will answer any questions of the interviewee.
   (K)   Upon conclusion of all interviews, unless there are no qualified
applicants or more interviews are needed, the supervisor of the department that
is hiring shall make a recommendation to their governing board as to the most
qualified applicant for the position.
   (L)   Once a decision is made and position offered, the potential new hire
will report to the Fiscal Office for the execution of any and all paperwork
prior to their start date and given instructions as to any other pre-hire
requirements such as a physical examination, drug test, background check, etc.
The new hire shall be given an Employee Handbook, sign an acknowledgement that
the new hire has received that copy and informed of their official start date
for employment.
   (M)   If no applicant is appropriate, the direct supervisor will contact the
Fiscal Office and the above process will be repeated until the position is
filled.
(Ord. 3-2019, passed 10-9-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      
50.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
51.   STORM SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Travel mileage reimbursement
Water Department
   
50.15   Board of Public Affairs (BPA); general powers and duties
   
50.16   Conditions of furnishing water service
   
50.17   Annual review of fees and rates
   
50.18   Penalty for nonpayment
   
50.19   Village’s remedies for nonpayment
   
50.20   Temporary water service; deposit
   
50.21   Temporary discontinuance of water service
   
50.22   Private fire protection service
   
50.23   Tap serving more than one consumer
   
50.24   Depth of water main
   
50.25   Installation of water main in sanitary sewer ditches
   
50.26   Maintenance of water mains
   
50.27   Maintenance and repair of fire hydrants
   
50.28   Meter rules and regulations
   
50.29   Cross connections and bypasses
   
50.30   Injuring, defacing waterworks
   
50.31   Unlawfully turning water on or taking water
   
50.32   Tap-in fee
   
50.33   Contracts; trunk water line capacity
   
50.34   Water main extensions
   
50.35   Declaration of water emergency
   
50.36   Backflow prevention and cross connection control
   
50.37   Resolution of conflicts between this subchapter and previous Board
actions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 TRAVEL MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   The rate of compensation for the use of personal vehicles pertaining to
Water Department related activities shall be computed at $0.375 per mile from
the Water Treatment Plant and return.
(Ord. 27, 2004, passed 11-9-2004)
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.15 BOARD OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS (BPA); GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Affairs (BPA) shall manage, conduct, and control
the waterworks, furnish supplies of water, collect all water rents or charges,
and appoint necessary officers, employees, and agents.
   (B)   The Board may make such bylaws and rules as it determines to be
necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management and protection of
such works, plants, and public utilities. These bylaws and rules, when not
repugnant to municipal ordinances or to the constitution or laws of this state,
shall have the same validity as ordinances.
   (C)   For the purpose of paying expenses of conducting and managing such
waterworks, plants, and public utilities or making necessary additions thereto
and extensions and repairs thereon, the Board may assess a water rent or charge
of sufficient amount, and in such manner as it determines to be most equitable,
upon all tenements and premises supplied therewith.
   (D)   The Board shall have the same powers and perform the same duties as
are provided in Ohio R.C. §§ 743.01, 743.05 to 743.07, 743.10, 743.11, 743.18,
743.24, and 735.05 to 735.09, and all powers and duties relating to waterworks,
and the Board shall have other duties as are prescribed by law or ordinance not
inconsistent herewith.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.16 CONDITIONS OF FURNISHING WATER SERVICE.
   Permit required for new service, tap-in and change of use:
   (A)   Property has existing tap, no change in use and tap-in fee has been
paid.
      (1)   Water service shall be furnished by the village only upon written
application filed with the Board of Public Affairs, and only in such manner and
upon such terms and conditions as set forth elsewhere in this subchapter.
      (2)   In the application, each applicant shall assume full responsibility
for the payment of all water charges and other charges incidental thereto, and
the responsibility shall not be terminated until the Board of Public Affairs
has received a formal notice in writing that the service no longer is desired
and a final bill has been rendered by the village and paid in full by the
applicant.
      (3)   Water service shall not be furnished to any applicant who is
indebted to the village for water supplied, work done, materials furnished or
penalties imposed, whether at the premises for which the application is made or
at any other premises supplied by the village, until the indebtedness is paid
in full.
      (4)   Upon written application and a service deposit filed with the Board
of Public Affairs, the Board of Public Affairs shall proceed doing those things
necessary for the furnishing of water service to the premises. In cases where
more than one commercial or domestic premise is served by a single utility
service, the village reserves the right to assess a service deposit
proportionate to the number of multiple services provided. A service deposit
will not be required of those property owners who move to another property in
the city after having established a “good payment record” which shall consist
of 12 consecutive months of non-delinquent payments.
      (5)   Any person who has paid a service deposit to the village may
request the return of the deposit after a 12-month period with a good payment
record. “Good payment record” means the account has had 12 consecutive months
of non-delinquent payments. If a delinquency occurs before that 12-month period
ends, then the service deposit will be held in escrow until a consecutive non-
delinquent 12-month period is satisfied.
   (B)   New tap-in required; new service.  
      (1)   In addition to the application for new service, a tap-in fee will
be required for new services that have not previously paid a tap-in fee. The
tap-in fee to be charged will be determined by the meter size.
      (2)   To determine the meter sizing, the BPA shall require the applicant
to state the intended use, for example, residential (single-family, apartment
or condominium with the number of units), commercial, industrial, or special
use (fire protection, and the like) and the average daily and peak flows if
needed. Using the equivalency factors based on the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency Guide where a single-family dwelling has an equivalency
factor of 1 E.D.U. (or Equivalent Dwelling Unit) and the American Water Works
Association (AWWA) Manual of Water Supply Practices M-1 Table 28-2 Equivalent
Meter Factors which uses the AWWA Manual M6 Water Meters-Selection,
Installation, Testing and Maintenance which states maximum meter flow capacity
ratios, the BPA will determine tap size and charge using the following tables:
Tap Size (Inches) x Multiplier Charge
3/4" = 1 EDU
Tap Size (Inches) x Multiplier Charge
3/4" = 1 EDU
3/4               x 1.00       $3,100
1                 x 1.67       $5,177
1½               x 3.33       $10,323
2                 x 5.33       $16,523
4                 x 16.67      $51,677
6                 x 33.33      $103,323
8                 x 53.33      $165,323
 
Where current tap-in fee for a standard household tap (3/4"=E.D.U.) is $3,100.
Once the meter size is determined, the BPA will determine if the current
distribution system has adequate capacity to service the tap. If the system can
provide adequate water, the BPA will authorize the connection to proceed. If
not, refer to the section addressing inadequate water mains.
   (C)   Change of use or water supply needs - existing service and tap-in fees
paid. When a customer changes his or her required EDU's, for example, when the
owner adds apartment or condominium units or there is a change in the average
daily or peak volume of water required, the property owner must notify the BPA.
      (1)   The BPA shall determine the additional service fees (multiples) and
tap-in fees required and assess the need for increasing the tap size.
      (2)   The owner shall be required to pay the difference in fees between
the existing services (multiples) and taps provided and the required new
services and taps. In addition, if it is determined that a new tap size and
meter is required to service the account, the BPA will determine if the main
size is adequate to service the property and, if so, the BPA shall charge the
difference between the existing tap size and the new tap size. All fees must be
paid prior to the installation of a new tap and meter.
      (3)   The BPA may, at its discretion, analyze the average daily and peak
flows of any property and if it determines that the current meter/tap cannot
properly service and measure the usage to that property, the BPA shall inform
the owner that a new tap and meter will be installed that properly measures
usage. The owner of that property will be given adequate opportunity to take
steps to reduce flows through conservation to levels that the existing tap and
meter can service and measure and provide sufficient verification or to provide
evidence that the service requirements fall within the capability of the tap
and meter to service and accurately measure water flows. If, after review, it
is determined by the BPA that a new meter and tap is required, the owner shall
pay the difference in tap-in fees and install a new meter/tap.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.17 ANNUAL REVIEW OF FEES AND RATES.
   The Board of Public Affairs shall annually review all fees (service deposit,
tap-in fee, turn on and turn off, inspection, testing, and the like), water
rates and deposits required. The BPA shall, by Board action, pass and post
current water rates and fees according to a determination of utility costs and
expenses, making necessary additions thereto and extensions and repairs
thereon.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.18 PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Meters shall be read monthly and the bill shall be rendered on the
first day of the month of each calendar month. The bills are to be paid within
15 days after billing. A penalty of 20% will be added to bills not paid by the
due date. In the event delinquency in payment continues for a period of 60 days
after the first billing date, the water service billed for will be immediately
discontinued and can only be resumed upon full payment of all delinquent water
bills and penalties including the subsequent reconnect charge of $50.
   (B)   The Board of Public Affairs will designate a bank to act as the
collection agency at which payment for water services can be made. When a bill
is presented for payment, the stub is stamped by the bank showing the date the
payment is honored. The BPA will accept the date stamped by the bank or a
postmark by the due date as the official date of payment. Any bill stamped or
postmarked after the fifteenth day of the month will accrue the 20% penalty.
Payments via night deposit cannot be honored until the next business day.
   (C)   In the event water distribution personnel are utilized to personally
collect delinquent utility bills, in addition to the penalty charge noted in
division (A), a collection charge of $15 shall be assessed to the delinquent
bill at the time of collection.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.19 VILLAGE'S REMEDIES FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   In the event of nonpayment, the BPA shall have the right to
discontinue water service to the premises supplied by the village's waterworks
system until the unpaid water charges have been paid in full.
   (B)   In the event utility service is discontinued to any residential or
commercial account due to nonpayment of any utility bill, the village shall
assess a $50 reinstatement charge in advance of the time as the utility
services are restored.
   (C)   The water utility charge levied by the BPA is made a lien upon the
premises charged therewith and if the same is not paid within 60 days after it
is due and payable, it shall be certified to the County Auditor so as to cause
the charge to be collected at the next succeeding tax collection. The County
Auditor shall place the same on the tax duplicate of the county with the
interest and penalties allowed by law and it shall be collected as other taxes
are collected.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.20 TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Temporary water service may be acquired by contractors, builders, or
others by written application filed with the BPA, at which time a deposit shall
be made as follows:
 
Outlet Size (Inches) Cost
1 or less
More than 1
 
   (B)   The deposit shall be returned to the applicant at the termination of
his or her usage less a fee for establishing water service, provided that all
bills have been paid for the use of the water. If any damage occurs, the cost
of repairing the same will be charged on a time and material basis and will be
deducted from the original deposit.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.21 TEMPORARY DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   Once a service is established, the owner shall be billed monthly regardless
of occupancy, until the time ownership of the property is transferred to the
new owner, who will be obligated to establish a new service and account within
30 days of taking ownership of the property. An owner may temporarily request
that the service be turned off and on and pay the turn-off and turn-on fees
that are in effect at the time of the request. This temporary request shall in
no way abrogate the requirement to pay the monthly charges.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.22 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   Private fire protection service taps through a sprinkler system or other
type system shall be installed by the property owner at his or her expense. The
tap of the water main and installation to the property line shall first be
approved by the BPA in writing after plans have been submitted to the Board for
the purposed installation.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.23 TAP SERVING MORE THAN ONE CONSUMER.
   The village reserves the right to furnish service to more than one consumer
from the same tap, the tap to be sufficiently large to furnish water in volume
as required by each and all consumers. Each consumer shall pay the regular
tapping charge according to the size pipe line that shall be installed to his
or her individual meter.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.24 DEPTH OF WATER MAIN.
   All water services shall be not less than 48 inches at all points from the
finish grade.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.25 INSTALLATION OF WATER MAINS IN SANITARY SEWER DITCHES.
   Generally, design and installation shall be in accordance with Ohio EPA
regulations. Pursuant to EPA requirements, water mains shall be installed with
at least a ten-foot horizontal and 18-inch vertical separation from any
sanitary sewers. The village also requires a five-foot horizontal and 18-inch
vertical separation from any storm sewer, measured from out-to-out. All
installations of water mains will require that either the developer or the
village to submit plans to the Ohio EPA and obtain a permit to install (PTI)
prior to the installation of any water mains. The developer shall pay all
permitting fees.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.26 MAINTENANCE OF WATER MAINS.
   (A)   The village shall maintain all water mains and services from the mains
to the shut-off valve. The consumer shall maintain the remainder of the water
line to the point of consumption. Upon notification by the water utility of any
leak, the consumer shall repair the leak within a reasonable time. Failure to
do so shall be justification for the water utility to discontinue water
service.
   (B)   The BPA shall have the right to maintain and repair existing water
lines belonging to the village's water utility which are on private property.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.27 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   The water utility shall maintain and repair all hydrants belonging to the
village. All fire hydrants owned by private parties shall be maintained and
repaired by the owners.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.28 METER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Each and every water service shall be provided with the proper size meter
furnished by the Water Utility.
   (A)   More than one customer on one service. If more than one customer is
supplied water from one main service, there shall be a separate shut-off valve
installed on each individual service.
   (B)   Accessibility. All meters shall be installed in a suitable and
accessible place. In case no suitable place for the meter can be found within
the building served, an approved meter pit shall be furnished by the village
for the meter installation. The applicant will pay for meter installation.
   (C)   Meter shutoff. All meters shall have a shut-off valve installed on
each side of the meter and on all meters larger than one-inch, an approved
bypass shall be installed. The bypass shall be sealed by the Water Utility. The
seal shall not be removed except by Water Utility employees except by written
approval of the Board of Public Affairs.
   (D)   Inspections. The village reserves the right of the Water Utility to
make inspections or checks of installations at all reasonable hours. Refusal of
inspection rights shall automatically be authority for discontinuance of
service.
   (E)   Tampering prohibited. No person shall cut, break, tamper or remove any
seal placed on a water meter, connection or bypass. Where any evidence of
tampering with the seal, meter or its connections is found, service may be
discontinued immediately at the discretion of the Board of Public Affairs.
Water service shall not be restored until an estimate of the water used has
been paid in full.
   (F)   Installation. No meter shall be set and service turned on unless there
is at least one adult at the place of service, such party to check all faucets
and outlets for water and see that they are properly closed. The Water Utility
will not be responsible for any damage incurred due to failure of the consumer
to make such check.
   (G)   Protection. Meters shall be properly protected against hot water
warping of the measuring chamber by check valves installed on hot water lines
at the proper points by the property owner. Meters shall be properly protected
against freezing by the property owner. If the water meter is damaged due to
freezing or hot water blow back, a service charge shall be made and the repair
or replacement costs of the meter will be charged to the property owner.
   (H)   Removal of meter. When service is discontinued and the meter removed,
the Water Utility shall not be responsible for the draining of water lines,
plumbing or fixtures.
   (I)   Testing of meters. Upon written request of a customer, and his or her
agreement to pay all costs involved in testing, the Water Utility shall test
the meter in question either at the place of consumption or at the Water Works.
At least one adult customer shall be present when the test of the meter is
made. Upon test, the meter shall register within plus or minus 2% for five-
eighths inch to two-inch meters. Over two-inch meters shall register plus or
minus 5%. However, if the meter is inaccurate under the above conditions, the
water service charge shall be adjusted for the amount of overcharge and no
charge for the testing of the meter shall be made. If the meter is found to be
accurate according to the above standards, the customer shall pay a fee for the
testing of the meter.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.29 CROSS CONNECTIONS AND BYPASSES.
   (A)   No person shall make or install any type of cross connection between
any source of private water supply and the supply furnished by the village
through the Municipal Waterworks System. Upon written notice, the municipal
supply may be discontinued until such cross connection is removed, and service
will not be restored until the Board of Public Affairs approves the connections
so changed.
   (B)   No person shall install a bypass where water may be used without
passing through the meter.
   (C)   No person shall install a section of pipe between meter connections in
place of the meter. If such section of pipe is found installed without
permission, water service shall be discontinued immediately.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.30 INJURING, DEFACING WATERWORKS.
   No person shall tamper with, mar, deface, injure, break or obstruct the use
of any machinery, pipe, hydrant, valve, plug, storage facility or other fixture
or part of the Waterworks System.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.31 UNLAWFULLY TURNING WATER ON OR TAKING WATER.
   No person, not duly authorized, shall turn on or cause to flow the water
from any hydrant, valve, plug or other fixture of any waterworks, when the
hydrant, valve, plug or other fixture is lawfully placed in any street or alley
or elsewhere in the city. This provision shall not apply when water is turned
on for the purpose of preventing damage by fire.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.32 TAP-IN FEE.
   (A)   No person shall make a service connection to the village's water
system or any part thereof, unless a permit to do so has been issued by the
Board of Public Affairs.
   (B)   Water system tap-in fees shall be deposited into the Water Fund.
   (C)   The tap-in fees will be evaluated and updated annually.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.33 CONTRACTS; TRUNK WATER LINE CAPACITY.
   The Board of Public Affairs may enter into a contract with a developer of
property whereby the BPA agrees to pay the cost of trunk water line capacity
beyond that capacity needed to properly serve the area of development.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.34 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Water mains may be extended upon approval by the Board of Public
Affairs by:
      (1)   A private owner (or a developer) to serve a new real estate
subdivision within the corporate limits provided the subdivision and its plan
has been submitted to all planning agencies and approvals have been obtained
and that adequate mains are available to service the extension.
         (a)   The owner or developer shall reimburse the Board of Public
Affairs for all costs incurred by the Board for plan review and inspection. The
plan review/inspection shall be a minimum of $750 and is required from the
owner or developer at the time of application for a permit to extend water
mains. When final construction approval has been granted by the BPA, the BPA
will calculate actual costs for review and inspection and the developer will
pay either the greater of $750 or the actual costs. The developer or owner will
be billed and shall have 30 days to remit payment.
         (b)   The BPA shall determine the extent of village inspection
required up to and including full-time inspection and inform the developer of
these costs. The developer or owner will be responsible for reimbursing the BPA
for these inspection charges.
         (c)   The developer or owner will be responsible for obtaining all
permits and paying all permit fees.
         (d)   The developer or owner will in addition to obtaining plan
approval by the BPA, will submit plans to the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency (OEPA) and obtain a permit to install (PTI).
         (e)   The developer or owner shall be required to post a bond covering
materials, workmanship, and excessive corrosion (five years) for the warranty
period (five years on corrosion) of at least one year to cover the cost of any
repairs due to defective materials, workmanship, and corrosion that may be
discovered.
         (f)   All new water mains and appurtenances shall meet the
specifications adopted as standard by the village for construction and
installation of same. At a minimum, the main size is six inches.
         (g)   If water mains are determined to be inadequate to service the
proposed extension, the BPA will inform the owner or developer that they cannot
install the extension at this time or until such time as necessary improvements
to the system have been installed. The owner or developer may at his or her own
expense (with the approval of the BPA) extend a water main to a point on the
existing system that the BPA has determined to have adequate capacity to serve
the new extension and its associated services.
      (2)   A group of property owners in a currently unserved area of the
village provided they petition the village.
         (a)   The property owners requesting a service extension shall file a
petition signed by at least 51% of the owners in the proposed service area.
         (b)   The proposed service area is contiguous.
         (c)   The owners signing the petition obligate themselves to the
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code regarding assessments to cover the cost of
the line extension and agree to pay the required service fees and tap-in
charges.
      (3)   The Board of Public Affairs in order to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the village.
   (B)   In all cases, the following will apply unless an item in division (A)
overrides:
      (1)   It is hereby determined that the entire cost, less any cost
hereinafter excepted, of any water main extension, valves, fire hydrants (which
are furnished by the village) and necessary appurtenances granted by the Board
of Public Affairs shall be levied and assessed upon the lots and lands bounding
and abutting upon the water main extension in proportion to the front footage
or benefits received, as may be determined by the BPA, or by both proportions
or benefits.
      (2)   The cost of any water main extension included within an
intersection of streets, as determined by street right-of-way lines or
extensions thereof shall be paid by the village or as may be otherwise
determined by the BPA. The additional cost of any water mains, valves and
necessary appurtenances larger than six inches in diameter may be paid from
water funds if the BPA determines there exists a benefit to the system as a
whole.
      (3)   A private party may construct a main extension to the municipal
water system upon submitting plans and specifications to the Board of Public
Affairs of the proposed construction, and receiving an approval from the Board
of Public Affairs for the construction. The main extension shall be under the
direct supervision and inspection of the Board of Public Affairs or its
designated representative, and the supervisor shall be paid by the party
constructing the new main extension.
      (4)   The Board of Public Affairs, one year after the written acceptance
by the BPA of the main so constructed, shall accept the main extension as part
of the distribution system of water of the village. It shall be free of all
indebtedness of construction before the acceptance by ordinance.
      (5)   Upon the acceptance by ordinance, the Board of Public Affairs shall
have full jurisdiction of ownership, usage, relocation, repair and maintenance
of the main extension and it shall be used the same as any and all parts of the
distribution system heretofore constructed.
      (6)   In addition to the assessed cost of installation of a waterline
extension, any person or private party wishing to tap-in to the extended line
must submit a written application to the Board of Public Affairs for a tap-in
permit and be subject to the terms and conditions of the application and pay
the tap-in fee.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.35 DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Affairs shall have the authority to declare a
water emergency whenever it determines that the village's water supply is at a
dangerously low level from either severe water conditions, drought, or
unusually high demand or to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the village, and to continue to provide fire safety to the village
and its occupants.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons using water
both inside and outside the village, and regardless of whether any person using
water has a contract for water service with the village.
   (C)   The Board of Public Affairs is authorized to establish the uses that
shall be limited or prohibited, including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The sprinkling, watering or irrigation of shrubbery, trees, lawns,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any other
vegetation;
      (2)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats or any other
kind of motor vehicle or mobile equipment;
      (3)   The washing of sidewalks, driveways or other outside surfaces;
      (4)   The washing and cleaning of any business or industrial equipment
and machinery;
      (5)   Swimming and wading pools not employing a filter or recirculation
system or other pools as required;
      (6)   Business and industrial uses.
   (D)   No person shall fail to comply with the orders of the Board of Public
Affairs issued pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.36 BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   There is hereby adopted by the village, for the purpose of preventing
backflow and providing cross connection control in the public water system,
Rules 3745-95-01 through 3745-95-08 of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Rules and Regulations for Public Water Systems, as were effective November 26,
1980, except that “Director” as defined in Rule 3745-95-01 (K) and “supplier of
water” as defined in Rules 3745-95-01 (W) shall mean the Board of Public
Affairs and, further provide that “public water system” as defined in Rule
3745-95-01 (T) shall mean the Village of Marblehead's public water system.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.37 RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTS BETWEEN THIS SUBCHAPTER AND PREVIOUS BOARD
ACTIONS.
   From time to time, the BPA may be made aware of conflicts arising in policy
and procedure that result from this action and previous Board actions. When
such conflicts arise, the BPA has authority by Board action, to resolve these
under the powers granted to a Board of Public Affairs by the Ohio Revised Code.
The Board will in due course take appropriate action and resolve them.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall carry a maximum penalty of $100 and each
violation shall be classified as a separate offense.
(Ord. 18, 2006, passed 9-28-2006)
CHAPTER 51: STORM SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Permit required; fees
§ 51.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any storm sewer or appurtenance thereof
except under the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Every person desiring a permit to make a connection with, open, or tap
any public storm sewer or drain, or to repair or alter a storm sewer connection
or storm sewer lines, whether the repair or alteration is on private property
or in the public right of way, shall first make application to the Zoning
Inspector who shall consult village records and the Street Commissioner with
regard to the storm sewer or drain desired to be connected with, opened or
tapped. If the connection, opening, or tap can be made, the Zoning Inspector or
Street Commissioner shall give the applicant the approximate location with
which the connection, opening or tap is to be made. Upon receipt of all fees,
the Zoning Inspector shall give to the applicant a permit stating that
permission is granted to connect with, open, or tap the storm sewer or drain
and also state in the permit the name of the street and the abutting lot
number. No permit to connect to the system will be issued until the Street
Commissioner has determined that there is capacity available for the storm
water and run off to be discharged in all downstream storm sewers. When the tap
to the storm has been completed, the applicant shall not cover the tap until
written approval is obtained from the Street Commissioner indicating that the
tap was properly connected.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the storm sewer, or the repair or alteration thereof, shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the storm sewer or
its repair or alteration.
   (D)   The village shall require permit and inspection fees. The fees will be
set forth in the village’s schedule of fees and can be amended from time to
time without amending this ordinance.
   (E)   Any person or entity that violates this provision shall be guilty of
an unclassified misdemeanor and may be sentenced to up to 30 days in jail and
up to a $1,000 fine.
(Ord. 8, 2012, passed 6-14-2012)
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
APPENDIX A: LOCAL REGULATIONS
OHIO LEGISLATIVE HISTORY REFERENCES – TITLE VII
Ohio Revised Code Section 2024 Basic Code Section
Ohio Revised Code Section   2024 Basic Code Section
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F) 70.02
2935.28                     70.08
3767.201                    70.09(A)
3767.99(D)                  70.09(B)
4501.01(LL)                 70.01
4501.01(TT)                 72.061(G)
4503.05                     71.02
4503.11(A), (D)             71.01(B), (G)(2)
4503.111                    71.01(C), (G)(3)
4503.12(A), (D)             71.01(D), (G)(4)
4503.21                     71.01(A), (G)(1)
4503.236                    71.03
4505.18                     71.04
4506.01                     71.45
4506.011                    71.46
4506.03                     71.48(A) - (C), (G)
4506.04                     71.47(A), (B), (D)(1) - (D)(3)
4506.05                     71.48(D) - (G)
4506.10(A), (E)             71.49
4506.12(I), (J)             71.47(C), (D)(4)
4506.15                     71.50(A), (D), (E)
4506.17(H), (N)             71.50(B), (D)
4506.19                     71.51
4506.20                     71.52
4506.23                     71.50(C)
4506.99                     71.99
4507.02(A)                  71.22(A)
4507.03                     71.22(B)
4507.04                     71.22(C)
4507.05(F), (I)             71.21(B), (K)
4507.071(B) - (J)           71.21(C) - (K)
4507.213                    71.22(D)
4507.30                     71.20
4507.31                     71.21(A), (K)
4507.321                    71.23
4507.35                     71.26
4507.36                     71.27
4507.99                     71.99
4509.74                     73.33
4510.037                    71.28(C)
                            71.28(D),
4510.04                     71.30(H),
                            71.31(E),
                            71.32(D)
4510.05                     71.25(A)
4510.11                     71.28(A)
4510.111                    71.28(B)
4510.12                     71.29
4510.14                     71.30(A) - (F)
4510.15                     71.25(B), (C)
4510.16                     71.31(A) - (I)
4510.21                     71.32(A) - (C)
4510.44                     73.08
4511.01                     70.01
4511.03                     70.03
4511.031                    70.38
4511.04                     70.04(A) - (D)
4511.041                    70.04(E)
4511.042                    70.04(F)
4511.05                     70.05
4511.051                    70.06
4511.08                     70.07
4511.12                     70.30
4511.121                    70.30(A), (G)(1)
4511.13                     70.31(B) - (E), (G)(2)
4511.131                    70.32
4511.132                    70.33
4511.14                     70.34
4511.16                     70.35
4511.17                     70.36
4511.18                     70.37
4511.181                    73.01(N)
4511.19(A) - (M)            73.01(A) - (M)
4511.191(A), (D)            73.02(A), (H)
4511.192                    73.02(B) - (G)
4511.194                    73.03
4511.20                     73.05
4511.201                    73.06
4511.202                    73.07
4511.203                    71.24
4511.204                    72.131
4511.205                    72.132
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)  73.10(A) - (G), (I), (K)(1)
4511.211                    73.10(J), (K)(2)
4511.213                    72.120(B) - (D)
4511.214                    73.16(A) - (D)
4511.215                    73.16(E), (F)
4511.216                    73.16(G)
4511.22                     73.11
4511.23                     73.13
4511.24                     73.12
4511.25                     72.001
4511.251                    73.09
4511.26                     72.003
4511.27                     72.004
4511.28                     72.005
4511.29                     72.006
4511.30                     72.007
4511.31                     72.008
4511.32                     72.009
4511.33                     72.010
4511.34                     72.011
4511.35                     72.012
4511.36                     72.013
4511.37                     72.014
4511.38                     72.015
4511.39                     72.016
4511.40                     72.017
4511.41                     72.030
4511.42                     72.031
4511.43                     72.032
4511.431                    72.033(A), (F)
4511.432                    72.033(B) - (F)
4511.44                     72.034
4511.441                    72.035
4511.45                     72.036(A) - (D)
4511.451                    72.037
4511.452                    72.038
4511.454                    72.036(E)
4511.46                     72.039
4511.47                     72.040
4511.48                     72.041
4511.481                    72.060
4511.49                     72.055
4511.491                    72.059
4511.50                     72.056
4511.51                     72.057
4511.511                    72.058
4511.512                    72.061(A) - (F)
4511.513                    72.062
4511.514                    72.063
4511.52                     75.01
4511.521                    75.02
4511.522                    75.03
4511.53                     75.04
4511.54                     75.05
4511.55                     75.06
4511.56                     75.07
4511.60                     72.002
4511.61                     72.075
4511.62                     72.076
4511.63                     72.077
4511.64                     72.078
4511.65                     70.10
4511.66                     76.01
4511.661                    76.02
4511.67                     76.03
4511.68                     76.04
4511.681                    76.06
4511.69                     76.05
4511.70                     72.115
4511.701                    72.116
4511.71                     72.117(A), (C)(1)
4511.711                    72.118(A), (C)
4511.712                    72.119
4511.713                    72.118(B), (C)
4511.714                    72.117(B), (C)(2), (D)
4511.72                     72.120(A), (C)
4511.73                     72.121
4511.74                     72.122(A), (B), (F)(1), (2)
4511.75                     72.090
4511.751                    72.091
4511.76(C), (H), (I)        72.092
4511.761                    72.093
4511.762                    72.094
4511.763                    72.095
4511.764                    72.096
4511.77                     72.097
4511.771                    72.098
4511.772                    72.099
4511.79                     73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)  72.123
4511.82                     72.122(C) - (E), (F)(3)
4511.84                     72.126
4511.85                     72.127
4511.99                     70.99(A)
4511.991                    70.99(B)
4513.02(A), (H)             74.01
4513.021                    74.02
4513.03                     74.03
4513.04                     74.04
4513.05                     74.05
4513.06                     74.06
4513.07                     74.07
4513.071                    74.08
4513.08                     74.09(A)
4513.09                     74.10
4513.10                     74.11(A)
4513.11                     74.12(A)
4513.111                    74.12(B)
4513.112                    74.12(C)
4513.113                    74.12(D)
4513.114                    74.12(E)
4513.115                    74.12(F)
4513.12                     74.13
4513.13                     74.14
4513.14                     74.15
4513.15                     74.16
4513.16                     74.17
4513.17                     74.18(A) - (E), (G)
4513.171                    74.18(F), (G)
4513.18                     74.19
4513.181                    74.20
4513.182                    74.21(A), (B)
4513.19                     74.22
4513.20                     74.23(A)
4513.201                    74.24(A), (B)
4513.202                    74.25(A) - (C)
4513.21                     74.26
4513.22                     74.27
4513.23                     74.28
4513.24                     74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)           74.31(B), (C)(2)
4513.25                     74.30(A)
4513.26                     74.31(A)
4513.261                    74.32
4513.262                    74.33
4513.263                    72.124
4513.27                     74.34(A) - (C)
4513.28                     74.35
4513.29                     74.36(A)
4513.30                     74.51(A)
4513.31                     74.52(A), (B)
4513.32                     74.53(A)
4513.33                     74.54
4513.34                     74.50(A) - (E)
4513.36                     73.15(A), (B)
4513.361                    73.14
4513.50                     74.38(A)
4513.51(A), (B), (D)        74.38(B), (C)
4513.66                     70.12(A) - (C)
4513.68                     70.12(D) - (H)
                            74.11(B),
                            74.21(C),
                            74.23(B),
                            74.24(C),
                            74.25(D),
                            74.30(B),
4513.99                     74.31(C)(1),
                            74.34(D),
                            74.36(B),
                            74.50(F),
                            74.51(B),
                            74.52(C),
                            74.53(B)
4519.01                     75.25
4519.02                     75.34
4519.20                     75.26(A), (B), (D)(1)
4519.22                     75.26(C), (D)(2)
4519.40                     75.27
4519.401                    73.16(H)
4519.41                     75.28
4519.44                     75.29
4519.45                     75.30
4519.46                     75.31
4519.47                     75.32
4519.48                     75.33
4519.66                     75.35
4549.02                     73.30
4549.021                    73.31
4549.03                     73.32
4549.05                     70.11
4549.08                     71.06
4549.081(B), (C)            70.30(F), (G)(3)
4549.10                     71.07
4549.11                     71.01(E), (G)(5)
4549.12                     71.01(F), (G)(6)
4549.18                     71.05
4549.20                     74.39
5577.02                     74.55(A)
5577.03                     74.56(A)
5577.04                     74.56(B)
5577.041                    74.56(C)
5577.042                    74.61(A) - (D)
5577.043                    74.61(E) - (H)
5577.044                    74.61(I) - (K)
5577.045                    74.61(L)
5577.05                     74.57(A) - (H)
5577.06                     74.57(I)
5577.10                     74.58(A), (B)
5577.11                     74.59(A)
5577.12                     74.60
5577.15                     74.53(C)
5577.99(A)                  74.55(B)
5577.99(C)                  74.56(D)(1),
                            74.57(J)
5577.99(D)                  74.58(C)
5577.99(E)                  74.59(B)
5589.08                     72.128(A), (B)
5589.081                    74.37(A) - (C)
5589.99(B)                  72.128(C),
                            74.37(D)
 
 
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow- moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Jurisdiction in traffic violations, see §
33.01
Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 94
Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 95
Statutory reference:
Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§ 4511.092
et seq.
Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title,
Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
Title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL)) (Rev. 2014)
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of- way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right- of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non- motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Rev. 2024)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Rev. 2013)
Cross-reference:
Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Rev. 2019)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04) (Rev. 2018)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041) (Rev. 2013)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042) (Rev. 1999)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic- control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic- control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Rev. 1999)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05) (Rev. 1999)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66) (Rev. 2024)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68) (Rev. 2018)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B)) (Rev. 2019)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D)) (Rev. 2019)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C)) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications, see
R.C. § 4511.11
Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Rev. 2014)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132) (Rev. 2020)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031) (Rev. 2013)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99) (Rev. 2004)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section;
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)    If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code
listed in division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was
distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was
a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991) (Rev. 2024)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers as
agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not to
exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A)) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A)) (Rev. 2024)
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C)) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A)) (Rev. 2020)
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A)) (Rev. 2004)
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A)) (Rev. 2004)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C)) (Rev. 2022)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D)) (Rev. 2016)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B)) (Rev. 2016)
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D)) (Rev. 2020)
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B)) (Rev. 2004)
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10) (Rev. 2021)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F)) (Rev. 2008)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six- month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I)) (Rev. 2016)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B)) (Rev. 2004)
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03) (Rev. 2017)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04) (Rev. 2004)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213) (Rev. 2022)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05) (Rev. 2004)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15) (Rev. 2005)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11) (Rev. 2013)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J)) (Rev. 2012)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2024)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12) (Rev. 2012)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14) (Rev. 2012)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2004)
Statutory reference:
Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal forfeiture
of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16) (Rev. 2015)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal forfeiture
of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21) (Rev. 2012)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04) (Rev. 2004)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, “commercial driver’s license” includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license.”
      (2)   “Enhanced commercial driver’s license” means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01) (Rev. 2024)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011) (Rev. 2006)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B)) (Rev. 2024)
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I)) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C)) (Rev. 2024)
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J)) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2016)
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of- service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2016)
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D)) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E)) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§    4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A)) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H)) (Rev. 2016)
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23) (Rev. 2006)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N)) (Rev. 2006)
   (E)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(C)) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see R.C.
§ 4506.17
Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19) (Rev. 2004)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20) (Rev. 2016)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99) (Rev. 2005)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Statutory reference:
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Rev. 2020)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Rev. 2020)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Rev. 2020)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D)) (Rev. 2004)
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45) (Rev. 2017)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454) (Rev. 2022)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF- WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic- control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Rev. 2004)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512) (Rev. 2004)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT)) (Rev. 2005)
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) (Rev. 2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low- speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low- speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) (Rev. 2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63) (Rev. 2006)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64) (Rev. 2019)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Rev. 2024)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751) (Rev. 2022)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I)) (Rev. 2024)
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772) (Rev. 2004)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701) (Rev. 2024)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B)) (Rev. 2016)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B)) (Rev. 2019)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A)) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all- purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B)) (Rev. 2019)
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) (Rev. 2019)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C)) (Rev. 2004)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C)) (Rev. 2004)
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)) (Rev. 2024)
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966", 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Rev. 2020)
Cross-reference:
Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Rev. 2007)
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84) (Rev. 2021)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85) (Rev. 2014)
Statutory reference:
Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (D)(1)
to (D)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d),
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(D)(1)(a) of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the assessment of points under division
(D)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (D)(1)(b) and (D)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An “electronic wireless communications device” does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205) (Rev. 2019)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician- paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN- INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M)) (Rev. 2024)
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE- RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181) (Rev. 2024)
Cross-reference:
Endangering children, see §
135.14
Power to suspend driver’s license, see §
33.05
Statutory reference:
Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A)) (Rev. 2016)
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
      You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192) (Rev. 2024)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D)) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194) (Rev. 2007)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79) (Rev. 2004)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202) (Rev. 2008)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44) (Rev. 2018)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Rev. 2018)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G)) (Rev. 2024)
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O)) (Rev. 2020)
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E)) (Rev. 2004)
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P)) (Rev. 2024)
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device used
to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Rev. 2019)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Rev. 1999)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Rev. 2019)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361) (Rev. 2004)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36) (Rev. 2004)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI- TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under- speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low- speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214) (Rev. 2014)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215) (Rev. 2014)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216) (Rev. 2023)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401) (Rev. 2014)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Rev. 2017)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) (Rev. 2017)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Rev. 2012)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74) (Rev. 2004)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow- moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel standards,
see R.C. § 4513.41
Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards, see
R.C. § 4513.38
Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021) (Rev. 2013)
Statutory reference:
Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11) (Rev. 2023)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C.
§    4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111) (Rev. 2023)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112) (Rev. 2023)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113) (Rev. 2023)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal- drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal- drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro- prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro- prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114) (Rev. 2023)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115) (Rev. 2023)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17) (Rev. 2024)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171) (Rev. 1999)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B)) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182) (Rev. 2024)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Rev. 2015)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20) (Rev. 2008)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201) (Rev. 1998)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202) (Rev. 1998)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Rev. 2024)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J)) (Rev. 2014)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K)) (Rev. 2014)
Statutory reference:
Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self- illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261) (Rev. 2004)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262) (Rev. 2004)
Statutory reference:
Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27) (Rev. 2001)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28) (Rev. 2010)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081) (Rev. 2009)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50) (Rev. 2013)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D)) (Rev. 2004)
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20) (Rev. 2015)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34) (Rev. 2024)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
Statutory reference:
Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter
5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)   
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) (Rev. 2013)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15) (Rev. 2020)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-
quarter inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. § 4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02) (Rev. 2022)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A)) (Rev. 1997)
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3                      450
3.5                    450
4                      500
5                      600
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six- axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04) (Rev. 2002)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958", 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C)) (Rev. 2005)
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(Rev. 1999)
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer- trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive- away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive- away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05) (Rev. 2014)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C)) (Rev. 2005)
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11) (Rev. 2001)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle- load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042) (Rev. 2012)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043) (Rev. 2012)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery
may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross vehicle weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044) (Rev. 2024)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045) (Rev. 2022)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)(8)
Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C. §
4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522) (Rev. 2022)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Rev. 2020)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56) (Rev. 2020)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01) (Rev. 2018)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C)) (Rev. 2004)
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B)) (Rev. 2004)
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40) (Rev. 2018)
Cross-reference:
Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all- purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41) (Rev. 2018)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle on any land or waters other
than private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44) (Rev. 2010)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45) (Rev. 2004)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46) (Rev. 1999)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47) (Rev. 2010)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48) (Rev. 1999)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of address;
loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all- purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66) (Rev. 2010)
Statutory reference:
Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
Cross-reference:
Unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 95
Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued handicapped
parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter 4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Rev. 2004)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) (Rev. 2018)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67) (Rev. 1999)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) (Rev. 2022)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Rev. 2024)
Cross-reference:
Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued handicapped
parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
Towing from private property, requirements, see §
95.01
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Rev. 2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
(Rev. 2002)
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
(Rev. 2002)
TITLE VII, APPENDIX A: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
1   Parking tickets
   
2   Changing speed limits in certain places
   
3   Under-speed and low-speed vehicles
§ 1 PARKING TICKETS.
   The payment of a waiver of a parking ticket shall be as follows:
 
Posted no parking                 $25
Blocking drive, alley or street   $25
Within 30 feet of a stop sign     $25
Within ten feet of a fire hydrant $25
On sidewalk                       $25
Facing into on-coming traffic     $25
Other violation of Code           $25
 
(Ord. 11, 1990, passed 6-11-1990)
§ 2 CHANGING SPEED LIMITS IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   By virtue of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21, the Director of
Transportation has determined and declared the reasonable and safe speed limit
to be as stated in the following locations:
 
Location                                                       Length  MPH
West corporation line, SLM 36.16 to Water Street, SLM 36.88    0.72 mi 40
Clemons Street, SLM 37.09 to Pleasant Street, 37.44            0.35 mi 35
Lighthouse Road, SLM 37.77 to the East corporation line, 40.10 2.33 mi 45
 
(Res. 8, 2008, passed 4-10-2008)
§ 3 UNDER-SPEED AND LOW-SPEED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      UNDER-SPEED VEHICLE. A three- or four-wheeled vehicle, including a
vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, with an attainable speed on a paved
level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour and with a gross vehicle
weight rating less than 3,000 pounds.
      LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. A three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle with an
attainable speed in one mile on a paved level surface of more than 20 miles per
hour but not more than 25 miles per hour and with a gross vehicle weight rating
less than 3,000 pounds.
   (B)   Under-speed vehicles and low-speed vehicles shall be permitted to
travel on roads and streets in the village on roads and streets where the speed
limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
   (C)   Any under-speed vehicle or low-speed vehicle which travels on any road
or street in Marblehead shall have the following:
      (1)   The under-speed vehicle or low-speed vehicle must submit and pass
an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that complies with
the inspection requirements established by the Department of Public Safety
under R.C. § 4513.02.
      (2)   The under-speed vehicle or low-speed vehicle shall be registered in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503 and shall be titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505.
(Ord. 8, 2017, passed 7-26-2017)
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   VILLAGE CEMETERIES
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   PARKS
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   KEEPING, HARBORING AND CONTROL OF DOGS
CHAPTER 90: VILLAGE CEMETERIES
Section
   
90.01   Regulations
   
90.02   Transfer of cemetery lots
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 REGULATIONS.
   All village cemeteries shall be under the direct supervision of the Cemetery
Committee of the Council and the Sexton, and shall be subject to the following
rules and regulations:
   (A)   All interments, whether standard burials or cremains, will require a
vault.
   (B)   There shall be only one standard burial per gravesite.
   (C)   There shall be allowed up to eight vaulted cremains in any gravesite
which has no standard burial.
   (D)   Vaulted cremains may be buried upon an existing standard grave with
the permission of the lot owner or someone with legal authority to act on
behalf of the owner and depending on the amount of space available. The amount
of space shall be determined by the Sexton.
   (E)   Gravesites are available only to residents or property owners of the
village or members of their immediate family, and each resident or property
owner may purchase a maximum of four gravesites.
   (F)   Wilted flowers, containers, trash and debris shall be placed in trash
barrels provided for that purpose.
   (G)   No trees, shrubs, flowers or other plantings shall be planted or
replaced upon graves; all cut flowers shall be placed in cemetery vases that
can be removed for mowing.
   (H)   Opening and closing of graves and resetting of headstones and repair
of headstones must be done under the supervision of the Sexton.
   (I)   Only one headstone may extend above ground on any grave space. A name
plate, flush with the ground, is permitted for each burial of cremated remains
on one site.
   (J)   The owner or his or her agent, at owner's expense, under the
supervision of the cemetery sexton, shall install foundations for headstones
and markers.
   (K)   The scattering of cremains in village cemeteries is prohibited.
   (L)   The price of a single grave site shall be $300. This price shall
include care of the gravesite. Care shall consist of mowing, weeding and
trimming of the gravesite, and shall not include maintenance of the headstone.
If headstone maintenance is desired, it can be provided by the village for an
additional $300 fee, paid at the time of the gravesite purchase, or at the time
of burial. This maintenance shall be limited to straightening and leveling of
the headstone and/or foundation.
   (M)   The price for opening and closing of graves shall be $450 for burials.
The price for burial of bodies that are cremated shall be $150.
   (N)   Any unforeseen situation, not specifically covered by these
regulations, or any variance from these regulations, will be referred by the
Sexton to the Mayor, who may give written approval for the variance or the
action required by the unforeseen situation.
   (O)   Violations of any of the foregoing rules and regulations shall be
deemed a minor misdemeanor, and any person convicted or found guilty of a
violation thereof shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 7, 2014, passed 1-29-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 TRANSFER OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   Cemetery lots shall not be transferred without the permission of the village
and shall first be offered back to the village at the original purchase price.
(Ord. 19, 2004, passed 11-11-2004)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any of the foregoing rules and regulations shall be deemed a
minor misdemeanor, and any person convicted or found guilty of a violation
thereof shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 19, 2004, passed 11-11-2004)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
91.01   (Reserved)
   
91.02   Duty to clean sidewalks
   
91.03   Naming streets and buildings
   
91.04   Application for naming of streets
   
91.05   Street openings
   
91.06   Trees, plants, shrubbery and weeds
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 (RESERVED).
§ 91.02 DUTY TO CLEAN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of each and every parcel of real
estate in the Village of Marblehead abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice, and to
remove therefrom all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time,
which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm
during which snow and ice may have accumulated. It shall also be the duty of
that owner to keep the sidewalk free from obstruction and accumulations of
debris, rubbish or mud and to take no act to damage any such sidewalk.
   (B)   Any person who damages or fails to clean such sidewalks within 24
hours of written or personal notice from the appropriate Village official shall
be punished as provided in § 91.99, and shall be liable for any damages to the
sidewalk and for any expenses incurred by the Village to remove snow, ice,
debris, rubbish, mud or any other obstruction from the sidewalk.
(Ord. 26, 2003, passed 12-1-2003; Ord. 6-2021, passed 12-8-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NAMING STREETS AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All buildings facing a street or public highway within the village
shall display the number specified by the Fiscal Officer in numbers three to
three and one-half inches high which shall be displayed upon the building or
adjacent thereto in a manner as to be readily identified from the street upon
which the building faces. Where several buildings are situated upon one plot of
ground, then the main building or resident building upon the plat shall be
numbered.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall keep and preserve a map of the village
showing correct street names and building numbers for each lot or plot of land
in the village, which map shall be available for inspection at all times. The
Fiscal Officer shall notify each building owner of the number which has been
assigned to his or her property together with the street designation of the
street upon which such building faces.
   (C)   The owner of a building who fails to display the property numbers as
specified in this section after 30 days notice from the Fiscal Officer of the
property number for the building shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 177, 1959, passed 11-9-1959)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 APPLICATION FOR NAMING OF STREETS.
   (A)   An application must be made to the Street Committee to name or rename
streets. Applications may be by the Board of Public Affairs, the Street
Commissioner, a Councilmember, the Mayor or from a legal owner on the street to
be named or renamed. Application must include the names and addresses of all
legal owners of property on the street to be named or renamed.
   (B)   The Street Committee will review the application within 60 days of
receipt. If the Street Committee approves the application, it is forwarded to
Council for approval.
   (C)   The application is then heard by the Village Council at the next
regular session and approval is by majority vote.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Village Council, the Fiscal Officer shall have
notice of the new name or name change published in the newspaper for two
consecutive weeks.
   (E)   The Fiscal Officer, after publication, shall notify local and county
authorities including, but not limited to, law enforcement agencies, 911 system
administrators, Board of Elections and Regional Planning, of the newly named or
renamed street.
   (F)   Assignment of street numbers is a function of the Fiscal Officer. Once
the number is assigned, the Fiscal Officer is then to notify local and county
authorities including, but not limited to, law enforcement agencies, 911 system
administrators, Board of Elections and Regional Planning, of the newly assigned
number.
(Ord. 6, 2000, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. 3-2022, passed 3-9-2022)
§ 91.05 STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   No person other than a village employee or its agent shall make any
opening into, cut into, break or otherwise disturb any street, alley or public
way of the village unless that person has obtained a permit from the Zoning
Administrator and paid a permit fee as established from time to time by Council
and set forth in the village’s fee schedule.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to cut into, break or otherwise disturb or
damage village roads or streets until and unless a deposit is made in the
amount per square foot of road to be damaged, as specified in the fee schedule,
which can be amended from time to time without amending this ordinance. That
deposit will be refunded when it is determined by the Street Commissioner that
the damaged area of the road is properly repaired with a minimum of ten inches
of 304 stone and a minimum of four inches of asphalt. If asphalt is not
available due to the season, the applicant shall fill the damaged area with
cold patch. The applicant will then have 30 days after asphalt plants open or
until June 1st to repair the damaged road as set forth above.
   (C)   (1)   Before a permit is issued, the village shall also require a
maintenance bond. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the deposit in
division (B) and shall be held by the village for one year from the date the
repaired road passes inspection by the Street Commissioner required in division
(B). The Street Commissioner shall inspect the repair after one year to ensure
the repair was done properly. If the repair was properly done, the bond shall
be returned to the applicant. If the repair was not done properly, the Street
Commissioner shall notify the applicant in writing that repairs are necessary.
If the applicant has not made the repairs within 14 days from the mailing of
the notice, the Street Commissioner shall cause the repairs to be made, using
the bond to pay for the repairs. The applicant is liable for the amount of the
repairs in excess of the bond amount.
      (2)   The bond may be cash or other surety which satisfies the Fiscal
Officer.
   (D)   All costs and expenses to cut open or break into the street and any
repair to the street shall be borne by the person desiring to cut the street.
   (E)   Any person or entity that violates this provision shall be guilty of
an unclassified misdemeanor and may be fined up to $1,000.
(Ord. 3 1965, passed 7-12-1965; Am. Ord. 9, 2012, passed 6-14-2012) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.06 TREES, PLANTS, SHRUBBERY AND WEEDS.
   (A)   The owner of every lot or parcel of land within the village upon which
a tree, plant or shrubbery stands with any part thereof upon or overhanging a
public street or sidewalk or has a tree, plant or shrubbery standing in the
street adjoining his or her lot or parcel, shall conform to the regulations
herein provided; otherwise, the village shall cause the trees to be trimmed or
cut down and removed in accordance with the regulations and assess the cost
thereof against the owner of the lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall trim or cause to be trimmed the tree, plant or
shrubbery so that a clear height of eight feet between the lowest branches of
the same and the street or sidewalk is maintained.
      (2)   The owner shall trim or remove, as the case may require, every
dead, decayed or broken tree, plant or shrubbery, or part thereof, so that the
same shall not fall to the street or sidewalk.
      (3)   The owner shall cut down and remove any tree, plant or shrubbery,
or any part thereof as may be necessary to provide a clear and unobstructed
view of traffic from all directions at any street intersection, or to abate any
nuisance necessary to protect life, limb or property of persons, drivers of any
vehicle, or pedestrians using the street or sidewalk.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to plant or replace trees of any species on
any part of a dedicated street without first obtaining permission of the
Village Council.
   (C)   In the event the owner does not trim or remove any weeds, trees,
plants or shrubbery, or any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of
this section, then the Chief of Police shall issue a notice in writing to the
owner to comply with the provisions in this section within ten days of the date
of the notice and upon noncompliance therewith, the Chief of Police is hereby
authorized and it is hereby declared to be his or her duty to have enforced the
provisions of this section and to cause to be trimmed or removed the tree,
plant, shrubbery or part thereof, and cut and remove all grass and weeds.
   (D)   The owner, occupant or person having charge or management of any lot
or parcel of land situated within the corporate limits of the village, whether
the same be improved or unimproved, vacant or occupied, shall cut or destroy or
cause to be cut or destroyed any weeds growing upon any lot, or parcel of land,
and prevent the same from blooming or going to seed or exceeding a height of
six inches.
   (E)   Whenever any tree, plant or shrubbery, or part thereof, or weeds and
grass are growing in any street, public place, or upon private property
contiguous to a street or sidewalk, or public place, and is trimmed or removed
by the village, then, after the work is done, the village shall give five days
notice, by regular mail, to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, at his or
her last known address, or best obtainable address, to pay the costs of the
trimming or removal of trees, plants, shrubbery, grass or weeds, or parts
thereof, which the notice shall be accompanied by a statement of the amount of
cost incurred, and in the event the same is not paid within 30 days after the
mailing of the notice, then the amount to be certified to the County Auditor
for collection of the same as other taxes and assessments are collected.
(Ord. 8 1966, passed 9-12-1966; Am. Ord. 8, 2008, passed 4-10-2008)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates this chapter shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day's violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 26, 2003, passed 12-1-2003)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE
Section
   
92.01   Maximum permissible noise limit and sound amplifying violations
   
92.02   Determination of decibel levels
   
92.03   Noises and sounds exempt
   
92.04   Separability
   
92.05   No wake zone
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE NOISE LIMIT AND SOUND AMPLIFYING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall generate or permit to be generated unreasonable noise
or loud sound which is likely to cause inconvenience or annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities by means of a live performance, radio, phonograph, disc
player, television, video or audio tape player, public address system,
bullhorn, loudspeaker, or any other devise designed and/or utilized for the
purpose of producing and/or amplifying sound, or by any horn, siren, drum or
other musical or percussion instrument, or any other device used to produce
sound in excess of the below described decibel limits.
   (B)   These restrictions shall only apply to noise that is capable of being
measured from any public or private property bearing a residential zoning
classification:
      (1)   Any noise or sound in excess of 65 decibels between the nighttime
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m;
      (2)   Any noise or sound in excess of 75 decibels between the hours of 6:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. is prohibited;
      (3)   Any amplified sound or noise emanating from a motor vehicle that
can be measured from a distance greater than 100 feet from any public or
private road or right-of-way is prohibited;
      (4)   Any activity not exempted in §
92.03, which generates sound regardless of frequency that is more than 10
decibels above the ambient noise level when measured from within any dwelling
unit during daytime hours; and
      (5)   (a)   Any activity not exempted in §
92.03, which generates sound regardless of frequency that is more than 5
decibels above the ambient noise level when measured from within any dwelling
unit during nighttime hours.
         (b)   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL is defined as the sound level which exists
at a point of measurement in the absence of the sound the noise emission of
which is measured, being the total effect of all other sounds coming from near
and far. The total of all noise in the environment, other than the noise from
the source of interest. This term is used interchangeably with the term
BACKGROUND NOISE.
(Ord. 3, 2003, passed 4-10-2003; Am. Ord. 29, 2003, passed 1-8-2004)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.02 DETERMINATION OF DECIBEL LEVELS.
   (A)   (1)   The sound level meter shall be a standard sound level meter such
as made by Radio Shack, Realistic or equivalent.
      (2)   Readings shall be taken on the C scale and slow response.
   (B)   Only village police officers trained in the use of the meter shall be
considered competent to take sound level readings.
   (C)   Prior to using the meter to take a sound level reading, the officer
shall verify the level meter's battery is in adequate condition and that the
meter is in working order per the manufacturer's instructions.
   (D)   Measurement of sound levels shall be done in accordance with the meter
manufacturer's approved procedures.
(Ord. 29, 2003, passed 1-8-2004)
§ 92.03 NOISES AND SOUNDS EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   Warning sounds and alarm devices which are designed and utilized to
signal unsafe or dangerous situations, to call for or summon police or
emergency personnel or which are utilized by appropriate law enforcement or
emergency vehicles and their occupants in pursuit of their duties and
responsibilities;
      (2)   Any music, sirens, specialty horns or other such devices utilized
during parades authorized by the Mayor or Council;
      (3)   Church bells;
      (4)   Any noise or sound generated as a direct result of open pit mining
or quarrying operations;
      (5)   Any noise or sound generated as a direct result of a construction
project for which all necessary permits have been obtained, between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday;
      (6)   Any noise or sound generated by outdoor implements such as
lawnmowers, leaf blowers, snow blowers, hedge trimmers, chain saws and the like
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (7)   Any noise or sound that is a direct result of a lawful and properly
permitted athletic event on designated playgrounds or park facilities, between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; and
      (8)   Any noise produced by watercraft such as pleasure boats, ferries,
or a freighter that is a warning or signal required by maritime or other laws.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall not apply to functions specifically permitted
by the Ohio Revised Code or other Village of Marblehead ordinances.
      (2)   It shall also not apply to functions for which the village has
issued a special permit.
(Ord. 29, 2003, passed 1-8-2004)
§ 92.04 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 29, 2003, passed 1-8-2004)
§ 92.05 NO WAKE ZONE.
   (A)   The following area is a no wake zone:
      (1)   The area between Buoy A, located at 41° 30' 38" latitude and 82°
44' 00" longitude; thence easterly to Buoy B located at 41° 30' 41" latitude
and 82° 43' 43" longitude; thence due North to the natural shoreline; thence
generally Westerly following the natural shoreline to a point due North of Buoy
A and thence to Buoy A. The distance between Buoy A and Buoy B being .58 mile.
      (2)   This no wake zone area is in Sandusky Bay approximately between the
second bridge on the Johnsons Island Causeway to a point off shore from the
Duck Club.
(Ord. 5, 1988, passed 2-12-1998)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
92.01 through
92.04, whoever violates §§
92.01 through
92.04 is guilty of generating unreasonable noise, a minor misdemeanor.
   (C)   If, within 12 months of the offense the offender has been convicted or
plead guilty to one violation of §§
92.01 through
92.04, whoever violates §§
92.01 through
92.04 is guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
   (D)   If, within 12 months of the offense, the offender has been convicted
of or plead guilty to two or more violations of §§
92.01 through
92.04, whoever violates this §§
92.01 through
92.04 is guilty of a third degree misdemeanor.
   (E)   If multiple noise complaints (more than two) are received during the
same sound-producing event, than a police offer may take whatever action is
necessary to restore the peace, including, but not limited to, arrest of the
offender pursuant to Village Ordinance 648 (e)(2), a 4th degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 29, 2003, passed 1-8-2004)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Junk and garbage
   
93.04   Cutting of weeds required
   
93.05   Junk vehicles on private property
   
93.06   Right of entry
   
93.07   Enforcement
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage a clean, healthy and
aesthetically satisfying environment for the citizens and visitors of the
village, and an environment free from nuisances, and unhealthy or devaluating
conditions. To these ends, this chapter seeks to regulate and identify
nuisances and/or unhealthy or devaluating conditions, and provide a means to
enforce the regulations in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the residents, property owners and visitors of the village.
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All food waste, trash and rubbish, and all putrescible wastes,
except wastes of the human body and other water carried wastes. GARBAGE shall
include all vegetable and animal remains resulting from the handling,
preparation and cooking or consumption of foods. Any containers that have
contained food or liquids for consumption by humans or other beings shall also
be classified as garbage.
   INOPERABLE EQUIPMENT. Any apparatus, tractor, construction equipment, or
excavation equipment, the condition of which is wrecked, dismantled and/or
partially dismantled whereby it is incapable of operation and/or use under its
own power; from which the wheels, tracks, engine, transmission and/or any other
substantial parts thereof have been removed.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled and/or partially dismantled whereby it is incapable of
operation and/or use under its own power; from which the wheels, engine,
transmission and/or any other substantial part thereof has been removed; and/or
upon which there is not affixed valid evidence of current registration as
required by applicable laws of the state.
   JUNK. All scrapped and worn out materials, including, but not limited to,
old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, rubber, pipe, old or
scrap iron, steel or other ferrous or non-ferrous materials which are not held
for sale for re-melting purposes by an establishment having facilities for
processing such materials.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. A discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped or ruined
motor vehicle or parts thereof, an unregistered motor home not connected to
water and/or sewer, or a vehicle other than on-premise utility vehicle which is
allowed to remain unregistered for a period of 30 days from the date of
discovery.
   LITTER. Includes refuse, junk, garbage and junk motor vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. The same meaning set forth in Ohio R.C. § 4501.01(B) or any
successor thereof or amendment thereto.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASSES.  Vegetation which is about to spread or mature,
has seeds, or has grown to a height of eight inches or more.
   PREMISES. A lot, parcel or plot of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon.
   REFUSE.
      (1)   Any discarded or rejected as useless items including but not
limited to ashes, crockery, bottles, cans (plastic, glass or metal), paper and
other wood products, boxes, rags, grass clippings and other cut vegetation; old
or discarded clothing, bedding, mattresses, furniture, appliances, tools, dirt,
nails, pieces of glass; cartons, used lumber, wooden skids or pallets or their
parts, broken plaster or drywall, concrete, bricks or blocks, barrels, broken
or abandoned lawn or household furniture or components, shingles, tires, or any
other vehicle part or accessory, garbage cans not used for weekly trash pick-
up, or any other substance or material that may result in undesirable or
blighted neighborhoods or threaten public safety, health or welfare. Logs,
branches or other scrap wood used for heating purposes may remain, so long as
it is neatly stacked, is not scattered, and does not become offensive by reason
of odors, insects, rodents or other nuisance wildlife.
      (2)   Building material may be stored outside of a building, provided it
is used for a legally operated business, a valid building permit has been
obtained and the supplies that are stored would be used for the building of the
issued permit. Building supplies must be screened from view of all adjacent
properties, public or private right-of-ways and be in compliance with fire
codes.
   WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is wrecked, dismantled or
partially dismantled whereby it is incapable of operation by its own power, or
from which the wheels, engine, transmission and/or any other substantial parts
thereof have been removed.
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.03 JUNK AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person shall permit any litter, junk, garbage, refuse, or other
nuisance to be collected, deposited, placed or remain on any premises in the
village, unless otherwise provided in division (E) of this section.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police, after inspecting the premises, determines that
litter, junk, garbage, or refuse has been collected, deposited, placed or grown
on any premises or that a nuisance exists, the Chief shall cause written notice
to be served on the owner of the premises and the person who resides on the
premises by certified mail or by causing the notice to be personally served.
The notice shall contain a general description of the offending materials and a
demand to remove those materials within a reasonable amount of time.
   (C)   (1)   If the materials are not removed by the owner or resident of the
premises within the time period set forth in the notice, the materials may be
removed and disposed of by the village or its agent.
      (2)   Any and all expenses or costs associated with the removal and
disposal of the materials shall be paid by the owner or resident of the
premises. The village shall cause a written invoice to be served on the owner
and resident. If the invoice is not paid within 30 days of issuance, the costs
and expenses may be recovered by an action at law and/or may be assessed
against the premises and shall become a lien thereon in the manner provided by
law in Ohio R.C. §§ 731.51 through 731.54.
   (D)   Any person who owns or has control of the premises who does not comply
with the written demand to remove the materials shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for each day the materials are not removed. Each day shall be a
separate occurrence. If a person is found to have violated this section
previously, the second separate violation is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (E)   Any person who owns a business in the village may obtain a permit for
a fee of $25 from the Chief of Police which allows storage of litter on
business property on a temporary basis. The storage shall not be visible from
the street and shall not omit obnoxious odors or cause other nuisances. The
Chief of Police, in his or her total discretion, can cancel the permit if he or
she determines that the business is not complying in good faith with the
requirements of the permit.
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.04 CUTTING OF WEEDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the village shall
keep the property free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank vegetation and
shall be required to cut all weeds and vegetation on the lots owned or
controlled by him or her. Weeds, vegetation or other grass in excess of eight
inches in height are presumed to be noxious and rank weeds for the purpose of
this division.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police determines that the weeds, vegetation or grass
is more than eight inches, he or she shall cause written notice to be served on
the owner of the premises and the person who resides on the premises by
certified mail or by causing the notice to be personally served.
   (C)   The notice shall contain a demand to cut the weeds or to appear at the
next regularly scheduled Village Council meeting to explain why the weeds
should not be cut down. If the next regularly scheduled Village Council meeting
is less than two weeks from the date the notice is mailed or personally served,
the hearing shall be held at a special meeting prior to the next regular work
session.
   (D)   At that meeting, the owner of the premises or the person in charge of
the property shall present any evidence determined relevant by Council, as to
why the noxious weeds should not be cut. The Council shall determine if it is
in the best interests of the village to allow the noxious weeds to continue to
grow, or to order the vegetation to be cut. The decision of Council must be by
a majority of those elected to serve and is final. The Mayor of the village
shall preside over the hearing.
   (E)   If a person fails to cut noxious weeds or vegetation as ordered, the
village may take any action as set forth in §
93.03(C), (D) and (E).
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.05 JUNK VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Storage.
      (1)    No person in charge or in control of any premises within the
village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall park,
storage, leave or permit the parking or storing of any motor vehicle or any
vehicle in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, unlicensed, inoperative or
abandoned condition, whether attended or not, for a period in excess of five
calendar days upon any premises in the village, unless the same is completely
enclosed within a building, or unless it is in connection with a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner and licensed as such, when
necessary to the operation of such business enterprise.
      (2)   A vehicle cannot be parked in the front yard overnight even if it
is “for sale” and cannot be “for sale” for more than 14 calendar days per year,
per property, one vehicle at a time.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, a motor vehicle shall be deemed to
be in a wrecked or junk condition if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The vehicle is extremely damaged including but not limited to
any of the following: missing wheels, flat or missing tires, missing motors or
transmissions.
         (b)   The vehicle is apparently inoperable for its intended purpose.
(Engine does not run, transmission does not move the vehicle, tires are flat or
missing.)
         (c)   The vehicle is not licensed.
         (d)   The vehicle is placed on jacks, blocks or similar devices for
minor or major repairs.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during on or which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Removal required. The accumulation and storage of one or more such
motor vehicles in violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute
rubbish and unsightly debris, and shall constitute a nuisance, detrimental to
the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the village. The
registered owner of the motor vehicle, the person in charge or control of the
premises upon which such motor vehicle is located, and the owner of the
premises shall remove the same to a place of lawful storage, or shall have the
motor vehicle housed within an enclosed building.
   (C)   Notice to remove. Whenever there are reasonable grounds to believe
that a violation of the provisions of this section exists, the Chief of Police
shall give, or cause to be given, written notice to the registered owner of any
motor vehicle which is in violation of this section, or to the owner or person
in lawful possession or control of the premises, by certified mail with return
receipt or by personal service, that such motor vehicle is to be removed to a
place of lawful storage or to be housed in a building where it will not be
visible from the street within ten days.
   (D)   Removal by village.
      (1)   In addition to and not in lieu of any other procedure or penalty
prescribed in this section, this chapter, or in the Traffic Code for removal of
abandoned motor vehicles from private property, if the registered owner of any
motor vehicle which is in violation of this section, or the owner or person in
lawful possession or control of the premises upon which the same is located,
fails, neglects or refuses to remove or house the abandoned, wrecked, junked
partially dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle in accordance with the notice
given pursuant to the provisions of division (C), the Chief of Police may
remove or cause to be removed and dispose of the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Any and all expenses or costs associated with the removal and
disposal of the materials shall be paid by the owner or resident of the
premises. The village shall cause a written invoice to be served on the owner
and resident. If the invoice is not paid within 30 days of issuance, the costs
and expenses may be recovered by an action at law and/or may be assessed
against the premises and shall become a lien thereon in the manner provided by
law in Ohio R.C. §§ 731.51 through 731.54.
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Chief of Police, any contracting agent of the village, and employee of
such contracting agent, and authorized officer, employee and agent of the
village, and each of them, are hereby expressly authorized to enter upon
private property for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
No person shall interfere, hinder or refuse to allow them to enter upon private
property for such purposes and to remove any motor vehicle, junk, garbage,
debris, noxious weeds or grass, or any other thing which is determined to be in
violation of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief, in enforcing the provisions of this chapter, is authorized
and directed to make inspections in response to a complaint that an alleged
violation of the ordinance may exist, or when he/she has a valid reason to
believe a violation of the ordinance is being committed.
   (C)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Chief is authorized to
enter any premises in the village at reasonable times to perform an inspection
of the premises for a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 93.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter and to protect the health,
safety and welfare of any person, the Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative (collectively the “Chief”), shall have the following authority,
functions and duties:
      (1)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter by conducting inspections
and re-inspections, and by issuing notices of violation whenever a premises is
used or maintained contrary to the provisions of the section.
      (2)   To maintain records of inspections and notices/orders issued.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police, or the Chief's duly authorized
representative, shall have supervision, control and direction over matters
relating to the control of and abatement of junk, litter, garbage, refuse,
noxious weeds or junk motor vehicles. The Chief shall have the power and duty
to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance by means of
injunctive action, criminal complaints and other remedies available at law.
      (2)   The Chief of Police is authorized to determine on what premise in
the village junk, litter, garbage, refuse, noxious weeds or junk motor vehicles
is located. After a determination has been made that junk, litter, garbage,
refuse, noxious weeds or junk motor vehicles has been collected, deposited,
placed or allowed to remain on any land in the village, it shall be the duty of
the Chief to see that the junk, litter, garbage, refuse, noxious weeds or junk
motor vehicles is removed.
(Ord. 4, 2007, passed 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS
Section
   
94.01   James Park hours of use
§ 94.01 JAMES PARK HOURS OF USE.
   (A)   James Park shall be open to the public between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
until 10:00 p.m., and shall be closed to all persons except authorized
employees at any other time.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall be in James park during the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 11 1974, passed 7-8-1974)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Interference with firefighting and firefighting equipment
§ 95.01 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTING AND FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than an emergency vehicle on official
business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet or drive or park the vehicle within 500 feet of
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm unless directed so
to do by a public officer or firefighter.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire
department when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in
command.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause damage, injury or
destruction to any water lines or fire hydrant of the village.
   (D)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or with the provisions of this section, or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer within ten feet of a fire
hydrant.
(Ord. 1-1960, passed 6-11-1960)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 96: KEEPING, HARBORING AND CONTROL OF DOGS
Section
   
96.01   Dogs running at large
   
96.02   Howling and barking dogs
   
96.03   Liability of owner or keeper of dog
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, harborer, or person having
charge or control of any dog, licensed or unlicensed, in the village, to permit
it to run at large within the village.
(Ord. 11, 2015, passed 9-9-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 HOWLING AND BARKING DOGS.
   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to keep or harbor any dog
which howls or barks to the annoyance of the inhabitants of the village, and it
is hereby declared unlawful for any person to create, continue, contribute to,
or suffer such nuisance to exist.
(Ord. 11, 2015, passed 9-9-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR KEEPER OF DOG.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall be liable for any damage or injuries
caused by a dog unless such damage or injury was to the body or property of a
person who at the time of such damage or injuries being sustained, was
committing a trespass on the property of the owner, or was teasing, tormenting,
or abusing such dog on the owner's property.
(Ord. 11, 2015, passed 9-9-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. If the offender has been previously convicted or found
guilty of violating this section within 12 months, the offender shall be deemed
guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11, 2015, passed 9-9-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT DEALERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   FOOD TRUCKS
      
114.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Ferry boat license fee
   
110.02   Video service provider fee
§ 110.01 FERRY BOAT LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee per ferry boat for the year 2005 and each year thereafter is
$250 per vessel, unless otherwise modified.
(Ord. 6, 2001, passed 3-8-2001; Am. Ord. 3, 2005, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 110.02 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   The Council of the Village of Marblehead hereby establishes a VSP fee
that is calculated by applying a VSP fee percentage of 3% to the video service
provider’s gross revenues as defined in R.C. § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law The
VSP fee percentage and video law gross revenues definition, as modified in this
section, shall apply equally to all video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the village.
   (B)   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing
service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor
later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage and gross revenues definition as
determined by this Council above, which notice shall be given by certified
mail, upon receipt of notice from such video service provider that it will
begin providing video service in the village pursuant to a state-issued video
service authorization.
(Ord. 3, 2008, passed 1-10-2008)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT DEALERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose; license required; display; personal identification
   
111.02   Application for license; fee
   
111.03   Hours
   
111.04   Transient dealers; license required; fee; registration
   
111.05   Exemptions; registration required
   
111.06   Revocation of license; expiration
   
111.07   Appeals
   
111.08   “No Solicitation” sign posted
   
111.09   Use of fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE; LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY; PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange or go from
door to door soliciting the purchase or gift of any goods, wares, merchandise
or other articles of value or money in any place in, upon, along or through the
streets, avenues, alleys or other public places with the village without first
having obtained a license and identification tag therefor that is in full force
and effect and issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No licensee shall fail to display such license and identification tag
on him or her at all times while exercising such calling, so that such license
and identification tag is visible to any person being solicited, police officer
or other official of the village.
   (C)   No licensee shall fail to retain upon his or her person additional
evidence of personal identification, which shall be so displayed upon request.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   No person who desires to sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange,
or to solicit from door-to-door the purchase or gift of any goods, merchandise
or other articles of value or money within the village shall fail to make
application to the Chief of Police who, upon being furnished with the following
information, shall issue to the applicant a license therefor:
      (1)   Company name, address and telephone number;
      (2)   A legal purpose;
      (3)   Dates upon which the door-to-door activity will take place; and
      (4)   Location in which the door-to-door activity will take place.
   (B)   The fee for such license shall be $50 per day, per person.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 HOURS.
   All persons selling or offering for sale, bartering, exchanging or
soliciting from door-to-door, without appointment, the purchase or gift of any
goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of value or money within the
village, shall do so only during daylight hours, but in no event before 9:00
a.m. or after 8:00 p.m., or at any time on Sunday.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 111.04 TRANSIENT DEALERS; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. No person, whether principal or agent, shall open or
conduct a temporary store or other place, including vehicles, for the selling
of wearing apparel or any other goods, wares or merchandise within the village
on a temporary basis, or offer any such article for sale, without first
obtaining a license therefor from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Fee. The fee for a license shall be $100 and shall be paid to the
Chief of Police. The license shall be valid for one week, except on Sundays.
   (C)   Daily license.
      (1)   If the transient dealer or solicitor is selling goods on village
property for 24 consecutive hours or less, on regular intervals during the
summer season, it may obtain a summer season license, which shall be valid for
one day per week from May until September for the year in which the license is
validated.
      (2)   The fee for the summer season license is $100 and must be
submitted, along with the appropriate application and proof of an insurance
policy in the amount of $1,000,000 with the village named as a co-insured to
the Chief of Police for approval.
   (D)   Event license.  
      (1)   If the transient dealer or solicitor is selling goods on village
property for a period of four days or less in conjunction with an event in
which multiple transient dealers or solicitors are also selling goods for the
same time period, the sponsor or organizer of the event may obtain an event
license, which will be valid for a certain period of time, not to exceed four
days.
      (2)   The fee for the event license on village property is $250 and must
be submitted, along with the appropriate application and, if the event is on
village property, proof of an insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 with
the village named as a co-insured to the Chief of Police for approval.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007; Am. Ord. 12, 2015, passed 1-13-2016)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 EXEMPTIONS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following persons are hereby declared exempt from the requirements
of obtaining a license as provided in §§
111.01 through
111.04:
      (1)   Any person selling the products of his or her own raising;
      (2)   A person selling newspapers;
      (3)   A duly authorized solicitor soliciting the purchase of goods,
wares, merchandise or gifts for or on behalf of any recognized educational,
civic, religious or charitable organization on private property;
      (4)   All vendors who are invited or scheduled upon private premises, who
appear by appointment and time schedule arranged with the customer and who are
not selling, therefore, upon a random, casual, door-to-door basis, but who
have, rather established a definite appointment schedule; and all other persons
otherwise exempted by law.
   (B)   However, all persons conducting any such exempted activities shall
nevertheless first register with the Police Department prior to engaging in
random sales or solicitations and shall state the name of the organization for
whom they are conducting such activities and the duration of such activities
from beginning to ending dates. No charge shall be made for the registration.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 111.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION.
   Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
or suspended at any time, if the person to whom it is issued is guilty of any
fraud, falsification of information on the application for such license,
misrepresentation, deception or wrongful act in connection with his or her
business or otherwise, or is found to be a person not fit to be engaged in such
business. Failure to abide by the laws and ordinances of the village or the
laws of the state shall be grounds for revoking such license.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 111.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative authority. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the legislative authority, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative
authority shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the
hearing shall be given to such person in writing by U.S. certified mail or by
personal service.
   (B)   The order of the legislative authority after the hearing shall be
final.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 111.08 “NO SOLICITATION” SIGN POSTED.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale, barter, exchange or shall solicit
without appointment the purchase or gift of any goods, wares, merchandise or
other articles of value or money within the village at any residence which has
openly and obviously posted a “No Solicitation” sign.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.09 USE OF FEES.
   Any fees paid as a result of this chapter shall be placed in the general
fund so that it may be used to aid in providing police and fire protection,
water and electricity and to keep the public areas in the village used for
these events well maintained.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $150.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A), the Chief of
Police may revoke any license issued by him or her pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 32, 2005, passed 1-12-2005; Am. Ord. 5, 2007, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord.
8, 2007, passed 5-24-2007)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Classification and distance restrictions
   
112.04   Measurement of distance
   
112.05   Prohibitions
   
112.06   Injunction
   
112.07   Sexually oriented business permit; purpose and intent
   
112.08   Permit required
   
112.09   Investigation and application
   
112.10   Issuance of permit
   
112.11   Annual permit renewal fee
   
112.12   Expiration of permit
   
112.13   Suspension of permit
   
112.14   Revocation of permit
   
112.15   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation
   
112.16   Transfer of permit
   
112.17   Sexually oriented business employee and independent contractor permit
   
112.18   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos in video booths
   
112.19   Standards of conduct and operation applicable to adult cabarets
   
112.20   Prohibitions regarding minors and sexually oriented businesses
   
112.21   Advertising and lighting regulations
   
112.22   Hours of operation
   
112.23   Nudity at sexually oriented businesses prohibited
   
112.24   Additional criminal prohibitions for the operation of a sexually
oriented business without a valid permit
   
112.25   Falsifying material facts; additional legal, equitable, and injunctive
relief
   
112.26   Immunity from prosecution
   
112.27   Notice
   
112.28   Appeal
   
112.29   Privacy
   
112.30   Severability
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses, to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the Village of Marblehead, to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of
sexually oriented businesses within the Village, and to regulate their
operation, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse secondary effects from
such sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene, or otherwise illegal materials, goods or activities.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions enumerated below may contain references to nudity or a state
of nudity. Such references should not be construed or interpreted to permit
nudity or a state of nudity in any sexually oriented business in the village.
In fact, this chapter expressly prohibits such. The definitions are provided
for illustrative purpose only. The words defined here shall have these meanings
regardless of whether they are capitalized, in quotation marks, or otherwise
noted as defined terms. For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and
words are defined as follows:
   APPLICANT. Any person required by §
112.08 herein to sign an application for permit to operate a sexually oriented
business.
   CHURCH or CHURCH GROUNDS.  Buildings used for public worship, and the ground
attached to them necessary for the proper occupancy, use and enjoyment by a
fellowship of believers, congregation, society, corporation, convention or
association that is formed primarily or exclusively for religious purposes and
that is not formed for the private profit of any person.
   CONVICTION or CONVICTED. Shall include a plea of guilty or nolo contendre or
a finding of guilt by a court of law, but shall not include convictions
overturned on appeal prior to the date of application under this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied exclusively for residential purposes, but not including a tent, cabin,
trailer or trailer coach or any other temporary or transient structure or
facility.
      (1)   MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof occupied or constructed to
be occupied separately by more than two families or housekeeping units.
      (2)   SINGLE FAMILY. A building occupied or constructed to be occupied
exclusively for residential purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
      (3)   TWO FAMILY. A building occupied or constructed to be occupied
exclusively and separately by not more than two families or housekeeping units.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business, or any form of
remuneration, tips of any kind or gratuities from the operator or customers of
said business.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides sexually oriented adult entertainment
in an adult cabaret or sexual encounter establishment whether or not an
employee of the operator and whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for
such entertainment.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR. A person who contracts with a sexually oriented
business establishment to provide services on behalf of the sexually oriented
business to the patrons of such business whether or not the individual receives
any remuneration, gratuity or tips of any kind, or pays the owner or operator
for the right to perform or entertain in the sexually oriented business. The
intention of this definition is to exclude those persons who are not employees
and who are not reasonably expected to have contact with customers or patrons
of the sexually oriented business, including, but not limited to, persons on
the permitted premises performing repair or maintenance services or delivering
goods to the permitted premises.
   LIBRARY. An institution in which literary and artistic materials, including
but not limited to books, periodicals, newspapers, pamphlets, and prints,
whether in print or digital form, are kept for reference, reading or lending.
   MANAGER. Any person who participates directly in the day-to-day management
of the sexually oriented business.
   NUDE, NUDITY or STA TE OF NUDITY. A live person exhibiting:
      (1)   The anus, male genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple
of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover anus, male
or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
operation.
   OPERATOR. Any persons on the permitted premises of a sexually oriented
business who are authorized to exercise overall operational control of the
business or who cause to function or put or keep in operation the business. A
person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a sexually
oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner or
permittee of the business.
   OWNER. The person or entity so listed on the application for a permit to
operate a sexually oriented business or, in the event no such application is
made, means and includes the custodian, manager, operator or person in charge
of the business.
   PERMITTED PREMISES. Any premises that is the site of a business classified
as a sexually oriented business and that requires a permit under this chapter,
or is the site of a prospective sexually oriented business for which a permit
is being requested.
   PERMITTEE. A person or entity in whose name a permit to operate a sexually
oriented business has been issued, as well as any individual listed as an
applicant on the application for a permit of an entity for a sexually oriented
business.
   PERSON. The operator and any individual, proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity that owns or operates the
sexually oriented business.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the village which is under the control, operation,
or management of any governmental entity.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. Any zoning district set forth in
Chapter 154 of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio, Zoning Code, that contains the
word residential in its chapter, and the Planned Residential District as set
forth in §
154.056(1) of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio Zoning Code.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility licensed by the State of
Ohio including but not limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools,
preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate
schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, colleges and universities. School includes the school grounds, but
does not include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only
incidentally as a school.
   SEMI-NUDE, SEMI-NUDITY or A STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which
opaque clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, and areolas of
the female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps
or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. A live performance at an adult
cabaret.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency or semi-nude model studio, as the terms are defined in this chapter.
Those businesses defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. A commercial business or operation where, for any
form of consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, or other
visual representations, for viewing by five or fewer persons each, are
regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video
discs, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by
the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial business or operation which has as a significant or substantial
(i.e., 50% or more) portion of its stock-in-trade or derives a significant or
substantial (i.e., 50% or more) portion of revenues or devotes a significant or
substantial (i.e., 50% or more) portion of its interior business or advertising
to the sale or rental for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video discs,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas;
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of persons.
A commercial business or operation may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas", and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or
adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as the definition above is met.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant, private club, bottle
club, juice bar or similar commercial business or operation, whether or not
alcoholic beverages are served, where:
         (a)   Persons appear nude or semi-nude or in a state of nudity or
semi-nudity;
         (b)   Live performances take place which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or,
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video discs,
slides, or other photographic reproductions shown or displayed are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas. References above to nudity should not be construed
or interpreted to permit nudity or a state of nudity in an ADULT CABARET.
PRIVATE CLUB shall mean an establishment where patrons may bring in their own
bottle or other container of alcohol of (including beer, wine or liquor) and
purchase a mixture for the same or use of a glass from the club or business.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial business or
operation which offers public accommodation, for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video discs, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
which advertises the availability of this sexually oriented type of material by
means of a sign visible from the public right-of- way, or by means of any off-
premises advertising including but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial business or operation
where films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video discs, slides or
similar photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial business or operation where, for any form of consideration, persons
appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity or live performances take place
which are characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas or by
specified sexual activities which business or commercial operation is not
customarily open to the general public during such appearances or performances
because it excludes minors by reason of age.
      (7)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association which furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration. ESCORT means a person
who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act as a companion,
guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model
lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another person(s) or to
privately appear in the state of nudity or semi-nudity for another person(s).
      (8)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with "specified sexual activities"
is offered, or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or
service related thereto, exposes his or her "specified anatomical areas." The
definition of sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of
massage in any licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed
physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician
working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program, nor barber shops or beauty
salons in which massages are administered only to the scalp, the face, the neck
or the shoulder, nor by any other individual licensed by the State of Ohio to
perform massages.
      (9)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person appears in a state
of nudity or semi-nudity or displays specified anatomical areas for money or
any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. Reference above to nudity
should not be construed or interpreted to permit nudity or a state of nudity in
a SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO.
      (10)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A commercial business or operation, that
as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, (i) a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate,
or consort for the purpose of "specified sexual activities" or the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas"; or (ii) activities between male and female
persons and/or persons of the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a
state of nudity or semi-nudity. The definition of sexually oriented businesses
shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the State of Ohio
engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy. Reference above to
nudity should not be construed or interpreted to permit nudity or a state of
nudity in a SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.
The above listed ((1) through (10)) shall be termed as sexually oriented
business classifications.
   SIMULATE. To assume the mere appearance of something, without the reality;
to imitate or pretend.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, anus, or areolas or nipple of female breasts; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT.  Sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape
or the following crimes connected with another sexually oriented business:
distribution of material harmful to minors, prostitution, or tax violations.
These crimes must include the element of knowledge to constitute a SPECIFIED
CRIMINAL ACT on the part of the accused.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, anus, or female breast,
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subdivisions (1) through (3) of this subsection.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the sexually oriented business,
except for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the
person possessing the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth or area where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, video or other
video reproduction.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.03 CLASSIFICATION AND DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No more than one classification of sexually oriented business can be
operated in any one permitted premises.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any sexually
oriented businesses, as defined under this chapter except within any
Manufacturing District as defined in §
154.146 and of the Village of Marblehead Zoning Code. Nothing in this chapter
requires the issuance of a zoning certificate for the issuance of a permit to
operate a sexually oriented business. However, the permitted premises must be
located in the Manufacturing District. Any zoning requirements imposed by the
village are independent of the requirements of this chapter. Further, no
permitted premises of a sexually oriented business may be located within 1,000
feet of the permitted premises of another such sexually oriented business; or,
within 1,000 feet of the grounds of any school, library, public park or
recreation area, church or church grounds, or residential district or use.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.04 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   With regard to the preceding §
112.03(B) and this chapter, all distances shall be measured in a straight,
horizontal line, without regard for intervening structures. Measurements from
the permitted premises of a sexually oriented business shall be made from the
closest exterior structural wall or section of wall enclosing the business to
the closest property line or exterior structural wall of all other properties,
zoning districts, or buildings in all directions.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   Permits for sexually oriented businesses shall be required and governed by
the procedures and policies specified in this chapter. In addition, any
sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she
knowingly operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business in
violation of §
112.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she
knowingly causes or permits the operation, establishment or maintenance of more
than one sexually oriented business within the same building, structure, or
portion thereof.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.06 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without having a valid permit is subject to a suit for injunction and shall
also be guilty of a first degree misdemeanor. If any injunctive relief must be
sought, reasonable attorneys' fees and related costs and expenses shall be
assessed at the discretion of the court against the sexually oriented business,
its owners and operators.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.07 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PERMIT; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of
the village, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the village. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented adult entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent
or effect of this chapter to in any way condone or legitimize the distribution
of material which is obscene or harmful to minors.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.08 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall operate without first obtaining a
valid zoning permit pursuant to
Chapter 154 of Marblehead Codified Ordinances and a valid sexually oriented
business permit issued by the village for the particular type of business
classification sought to be operated. It shall be unlawful and a person commits
a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she knowingly operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business without first obtaining said permit,
or employs a person as a sexually oriented business employee or independent
contractor who is not authorized to work or perform services pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is responsible for granting, denying, revoking,
renewing and suspending sexually oriented business permits for proposed or
existing sexually oriented businesses.
   (C)   The Police Department is responsible for obtaining information on
whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act during the
time period set forth.
   (D)   Application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
village. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the village an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on
the standard application form of the village. If a person who wishes to operate
a sexually oriented business is an individual, he or she shall sign the
application for a permit as an applicant. If an entity wishes to operate a
sexually oriented business, the entity shall file an application for a permit
with an authorized representative signing for the entity. In addition, each
manager of the entity shall also sign the application for a permit. Each
applicant must be qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be
considered as a permittee if a permit is granted.
   (E)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the documents indicated:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases; further, if the applicant intends to operate the business as a
sole proprietorship, the applicant shall list the name under which he or she
intends to do business;
         (b)   Representing a partnership, the applicant shall state the
partnership's complete name, the name and address of the statutory agent or
other agent authorized to accept service of process, and the legal name and any
aliases of each manager;
         (c)   Representing a corporation, the applicant shall state the
corporation's complete name, provide the name of the registered corporate agent
and the address of the registered office for service of process, and the legal
name and any aliases of each manager;
         (d)   Representing a limited liability company, the applicant shall
state the limited liability company's name, the name and address of the
registered agent and address of the registered office for service of process,
and the legal name and any aliases of each manager.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, the applicant must state the
sexually oriented business's fictitious name.
      (3)   Whether the applicant (including any manager) has, within the two
or five-year period (as specified in §
112.10(C) immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of
a specified criminal act, and, if so, the name of the pertinent applicant or
manager, the specified criminal act involved, the date of the conviction and
the place of conviction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant (including any manager) has had a previous
permit under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business
ordinances from another village, county, township or state denied, suspended or
revoked within a two-year period immediately preceding the date of the
application, including the name of the pertinent applicant or manager, the name
and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, reason for the same, and length of suspension.
      (5)   Whether the applicant (including any manager) holds any other
permits and/or licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business chapter from another village, county, township or state and, if so,
the name of the pertinent applicant or manager and the names and locations of
such other permitted businesses.
      (6)   The single classification of sexually oriented business for which
the applicant is filing a permit application.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the permitted premises, street address, and telephone
number(s), if any.
      (8)   The mailing address and residential address of each applicant
(including any manager).
      (9)   Written proof of date of birth of any individual applicant
(including any manager).
      (10)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the permitted
premises, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business.
The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn
to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus one foot. Further, the diagram must
comply with the provisions of §§
112.18 and
112.19 of this chapter, if applicable.
      (11)   At the applicant's discretion, the application may include, but is
not required to include, a current straight-line drawing prepared not more than
30 days prior to the date of application and certified to the village by an
Ohio registered land surveyor depicting:
         (a)   The property lines and the permitted premises containing any
established existing uses regulated by this chapter within a 1,000 foot radius
of the permitted premises in which the applied for sexually oriented business
is to be located;
         (b)   The property lines of any established school, library, public
park or recreation area, church or church grounds within 1,000 feet of the
permitted premises;
         (c)   The property lines of any residence or residential district
within 1,000 feet of the permitted premises; and
      (12)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by each
applicant.
   (F)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any material way from what is stated
on the application, including all information pertaining to managers. The
failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days from the date of
such change, by supplementing the application on file with the village, shall
be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (G)   In the event that the Chief of Police determines or learns at any time
that the applicant has improperly completed the application for a proposed
sexually oriented business, he or she shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete the
application. The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be stayed
during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly
complete the application.
   (H)   The applicant shall pay a non-refundable application fee of $300 at
the time of filing an application pursuant to this chapter to defray the
administrative expenses associated with processing the application, including,
but not limited to, any reasonable investigations associated therewith.
   (I)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or village
permits and/or licenses does not exempt that person from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business permit or qualify that person for a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (J)   The applicant shall be required to provide the village with the names
of any and all employees and independent contractors who are required to be
licensed pursuant to §
112.17 of this chapter before they commence working. An application filed by
the employee or independent contractor with the village before beginning work
shall be deemed compliance with this provision. This shall be a continuing
requirement, even after a permit is granted or renewed, so long as the sexually
oriented business is in operation. A person who knows or should know that they
have failed to comply with this requirement shall be guilty of a first degree
misdemeanor.
   (K)   For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. The
village, upon request of applicant or applicant's agent, shall provide a list
of sexually oriented businesses in the general area which are currently
licensed by the village.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.09 INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the village and
upon payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the Chief of Police shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
evaluate the application in accordance with his or her responsibilities under
law and as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   All duties under this chapter may be assigned by the responsible party
to a designee but the designee may not be a person assigned to review decisions
made by the responsible party.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.10 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Chief of Police to grant or deny permit. The Chief of Police shall
grant or deny the application for a permit within 30 days from the date of its
proper filing. If 30 days have passed and the permit has not been granted or
denied, unless the applicant requests and is granted an extension of time, the
applicant shall be issued a temporary permit and be permitted to begin
operating the business for which the permit is sought, until the Chief of
Police notifies the applicant of a grant of a permit or denial of the
application and states the reason(s) for that denial. Operators who commence
operations after the 30-day period (i.e. 30 days after the application is
properly filed) while approval or denial is pending do so at their own risk as
to the costs involved, but shall not be subject to prosecution for failure to
obtain a permit, unless the application is denied and the operation is
continued thereafter. If the application is denied, the appeal process set out
in §
112.28 shall apply.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall grant the application unless one or more
of the criteria set forth in division (C), below, is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the type of
sexually oriented business approved and the address of the sexually oriented
business. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous interior location at or
near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it can be read
easily at any time by a reasonable person.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   Any applicant (other than an entity) is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   Any applicant is overdue on his or her payment to the village of
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon
him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   Any application has failed to comply with §
112.08(F).
         (d)   Granting of the application would violate a court order;
         (e)   Any applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended more than three times or revoked during the five-year period
preceding the application; or
         (f)   Any applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal act"
for which;
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction,
the date of completion of probation, or the date of release from confinement,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for
the "specified criminal acts";
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction, the date of completion of probation, or the date of release from
confinement, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony
offense, for the "specified criminal acts";
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction, that date of completion of probation, or the date of release from
confinement, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more
misdemeanor offenses arising out of different incidents for "specified criminal
acts" offenses occurring within any 24-month period;
The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
disqualification of the applicant. An applicant who has been convicted of the
above described "specified criminal acts" may qualify for a sexually oriented
business permit only when the time period required above has elapsed.
         (g)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business fails to
satisfy the location and distance criteria set forth in §
112.03(B).
      (2)   If the Chief of Police denies the application, he or she shall
promptly notify the applicant of the denial in writing and state the reason(s)
for the denial.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the same location, and there has not been an intervening change in
the circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.11 ANNUAL PERMIT RENEWAL FEE.
   The annual permit renewal fee for a sexually oriented business permit is
$100. A permit shall not be issued until the annual permit renewal fee is paid.
The annual permit renewal fee shall be due each year for which the application
for a renewal of the permit for the business is received.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.12 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.10 (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be sufficient) of this
chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the permit will not be affected. An application for renewal
may be filed with the original sketch and survey but all other materials must
be revised as applicable.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police denies renewal of the permit, based on one of
the reasons stated in §
112.10, the applicant shall not be issued a permit under this chapter for one
year from the date of denial, unless, subsequent to denial, the Chief of Police
determines that the basis for denial of the renewal of the permit has been
corrected, in which case the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final. The existing permit shall
remain in effect until the renewal permit has been granted or, if denied, until
the appeal process in §
112.28 shall have been concluded.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.13 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall suspend a permit for such a business for a
period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a permittee, or an
employee or independent contractor of a permittee, has:
      (1)   Violated any section of this chapter; or
      (2)   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages or controlled
substances while working in or on the sexually oriented business premises; or
      (3)   Knowingly permitted illegal gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises; or
      (4)   Engaged in the transfer of a permit contrary to §
112.16 of this chapter. In the event that the Chief of Police suspends a permit
on the ground that a permittee engaged in the transfer of a permit contrary to
§
112.16 of this chapter, the Chief of Police shall forthwith notify the
permittee of the suspension; or
      (5)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation in §
112.21 of this chapter; or
      (6)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid permit as
required in §
112.17 of this chapter.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation in question
has been corrected if it is a continuing violation.
   (C)   Appeal. The process set out in §
112.28 shall apply to any suspension. The existing permit shall remain in
effect until the appeal process in §
112.28 shall have been concluded.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.14 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a permit of a permittee or an
employee or independent contractor upon determining that:
      (1)   In the event the village believes that the application has been
granted based upon false information, and a court of competent jurisdiction
finds that the information contained in any application is in fact materially
false, the permit may be revoked; or
      (2)   A permittee or an employee or independent contractor has knowingly
allowed possession, use or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
or
      (3)   A permittee or an employee or independent contractor has knowingly
allowed prostitution on the permitted premises; or
      (4)   A permittee or an employee or independent contractor knowingly
operated or worked in the sexually oriented business during a period of time
when the permit was suspended; or
      (5)   A permittee or an employee or independent contractor has been
convicted of a specified criminal act for which the time period required in §
112.10 of this chapter has not elapsed; or
      (6)   On three or more occasions within a 12-month period, the Chief of
Police has suspended an applicant's permit under this chapter; or
      (7)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, an individual or
individuals committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit; or
      (8)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business, or
      (9)   A permittee or an employee or independent contractor has knowingly
allowed any sexual activity, as defined in R.C. § 2907.01, or any other
specified sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
      (10)   A permittee has failed to comply with §
112.08(K) of this chapter on three or more occasions within a 12-month period.
   (B)   When the Chief of Police revokes a permit, the revocation shall
continue for one calendar year. No applicant shall be issued a sexually
oriented business permit for any other location in the village during the one-
year period after the revocation became effective except in accordance with §
112.12(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   Appeal. The process set out in §
112.28 shall apply to revocations. The existing permit shall remain in effect
until the appeal process in §
112.28 shall have been concluded.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.15 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Appeal. The process set out in §
112.28 shall apply.
   (B)   Prompt Judicial Review. The village is aware of the Constitutional
requirement to provide prompt judicial review to persons affected by this
chapter. Since the village cannot legally mandate the timing of judicial review
in these matters, the village has created a right to a temporary permit or the
continuation of a permit to maintain the status quo for these persons while
they seek quasi-judicial and judicial review to prevent the suppression of
speech or expression protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.16 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person or
another sexually oriented business unless and until such other person satisfies
the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the Chief of Police which
approves the new permittee or the change in sexually oriented business, which
amendment may be obtained only after proper completion and filing of an
application with the Chief of Police, setting forth the information called for
under §
112.08 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Pays a transfer fee equal to the annual permit renewal fee set by
this chapter.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the Chief of Police has notified the
permittee that suspension or revocation proceedings have been brought against
the permittee, and such proceedings are pending.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer the permit to another location except
as otherwise provided herein.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.17 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Each individual to be employed or to work as an independent contractor
in a sexually oriented business, as defined in §
112.02 of this chapter, shall be required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee and independent contractor's permit. Each applicant for such
a permit shall pay a permit fee of $25. Said fee is to cover part of the
reasonable administrative costs of the licensing application process.
   (B)   Before any individual may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee or independent contractor's permit, the applicant shall submit on a
form to be provided by the Chief of Police the following information:
      (1)   The individual's name and a personal or business address where mail
may be delivered.
      (2)   Written proof of date of birth showing that the individual is at
least 18 years of age.
      (3)   A statement detailing whether he or she has ever had a similar
license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended
in the two years immediately preceding the application. In the event of any
such denial, revocation or suspension, the individual shall state the date, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the reasons
for the denial, revocation, or suspension and the length of the suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application if applicable.
      (4)   Whether the individual has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as defined in §
112.10 of this chapter during the period set forth in §
112.10. This information shall include the date, place, nature of each
conviction and identify the convicting jurisdiction.
      (5)   Two identical passport-quality photographs of the individual,
approximately two inches in size, taken within the preceding year, for use on
the permit and application.
      (6)   The Chief of Police shall grant or deny the application for a
permit within ten days from the date of its proper filing.
      (7)   The Chief of Police shall refer the sexually oriented business
employee and independent contractor's permit application to the Police
Department for an investigation to be made of such information as is contained
on the application. The application process shall be completed within ten days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
Chief of Police shall issue a permit unless the report from the Police
Department finds that one or more of the following findings is true:
         (a)   That the individual is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   That the individual has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as defined in §
112.10 of this chapter;
         (c)   That the sexually oriented business employee and independent
contractor's permit is to be used for employment in a business prohibited by
local or state law, statute, rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular
provisions of this chapter; or
         (d)   That the individual has had a sexually oriented business
employee and independent contractor's permit revoked by the village within two
years of the date of the current application or suspended three or more times
within two years of the date of the current application.
      (8)   An individual, upon receipt by the Chief of Police of a properly
completed application for a sexually oriented business employee or independent
contractor permit, may work or perform services pursuant to a temporary permit
which shall be issued by the Chief of Police within three business days of the
time the application is made. This temporary permit shall be in force until
such time as the permit is issued or the decision to deny the permit becomes
final pursuant to §
112.28. The applicant shall keep the temporary work permit on his or her person
or on the permitted premises where the applicant is then working or performing
services and produce such permit for inspection upon request by a law
enforcement officer or other authorized village official. Employees and/or
independent contractors who commence working while approval or denial is
pending do so at their own risk as to the costs involved, but shall not be
subject to prosecution for failure to obtain a permit, unless the application
is denied and the employment is continued thereafter.
      (9)   Renewal of license.
         (a)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the Chief of Police upon the written application of the
individual and a finding by the Chief of Police and the Police Department that
the individual has not been convicted of any specified criminal act as defined
in §
112.10 of this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous permit period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit
application.
         (b)   The renewal of the license shall be subject to payment of an
annual fee of $25.
      (10)   Appeal. The process set out in §
112.28 shall apply to these permits.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.18 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel/hotel and regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued to said business under this chapter, which exhibits on
the premises in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space,
sexually explicit films, i.e. a film, video cassette, digital video disc, or
other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area with no dimension greater than eight feet. The
diagram shall also designate the place at which this permit will be
conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus one foot. The
Chief of Police may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police.
      (3)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (4)   The interior of the permitted premises shall be configured in such
a manner so that, at a normal adult height of at least five feet, there is an
unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, including the interior of
individual viewing booths, excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain film
or video display equipment. If the premises have two or more manager's stations
designated, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which
any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the
manager's stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct line
of sight from the manager's station.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any independent contractors, agents and employees present on the
premises to ensure that, at a normal adult height of at least five feet, the
view area specified in division (4) remains unobstructed by any doors, walls,
merchandise, display racks or other materials or people at all times and to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
      (6)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as glory holes, shall be allowed in the walls or
partitions which separate each viewing booth from an adjoining viewing booth or
restroom. Viewing booths may not be enclosed by doors, curtains or maze walls.
No signs, lights or other communicative devices maybe used to create an
expectation of privacy on the part of any patron at any location on the
premises.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination level of not less than two foot candles as measured
at the floor.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any independent contractors, agents and employees present on the
premises to ensure that the illumination described above is maintained at all
times that any patron is present on the premises.
   (B)   Any person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) commits
a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that
duty.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.19 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND OPERATION APPLICABLE TO ADULT CABARETS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult cabaret
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued to said business under
this chapter, which features sexually oriented adult entertainment, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No entertainer shall be permitted to have any physical contact with
any other entertainer, employee or customer on the premises during any
performance and the portion of the adult cabaret in which sexually oriented
adult entertainment is performed shall be on a stage or platform at least 18
inches above the immediate floor level and that is separated from all patron
seating areas by at least six feet. No customer at an adult cabaret shall be
permitted to have any physical contact with any entertainer or employee
appearing in a state of semi- nudity during a performance. Physical contact
includes touching the clothing as well as the touching of the person.
      (2)   A sign in lettering at least 3/4 inches high shall be conspicuously
displayed in the public area of the business stating the following:
“THIS ADULT CABARET IS REGULATED BY THE VILLAGE OF MARBLEHEAD, OHIO. CUSTOMERS
ARE NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN PHYSICAL CONTACT WITH ENTERTAINERS DURING THE
COURSE OF A PERFORMANCE. ENTERTAINERS ARE NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN PHYSICAL
CONTACT WITH ANY OTHER ENTERTAINER, EMPLOYEE, OR CUSTOMER DURING A PERFORMANCE.
AT ALL TIMES DURING THE PERFORMANCE, THE ENTERTAINER MUST MAINTAIN AT LEAST A
SIX (6) FOOT BUFFER ZONE FROM ALL CUSTOMERS.”
   (B)   Any person who knowingly violates §
112.19(A)(1) commits a misdemeanor of the first degree. It is a defense to
prosecution for any violation of division (A)(1) of this section that the
physical contact was inadvertent or accidental in nature.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.20 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business, who authorizes,
suffers, or allows:
      (1)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business
premises.
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises.
      (3)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises.
      (4)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business
premises as an employee, contractor, subcontractor or employee of a contractor
or subcontractor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the permittee to obtain such documentation as
is necessary to assure that this section is not violated. Failure of the
permittee to assure compliance with this section shall constitute a first
degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.21 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a first degree misdemeanor
if he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under
this chapter, and knowingly advertises the presentation of any activity
prohibited by any applicable state statute or this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a first degree misdemeanor
if he or she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under
this chapter, and knowingly displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or
performances at such sexually oriented business in any advertising which is
visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall not extend to lawful
advertising of the name, nature or location of such sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The permittee shall not knowingly allow any portion of the interior
premises to be visible from outside the premises and shall not knowingly allow
any activity conducted on the premises to be visible from any location off the
premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of 1 foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or walkways.
This required lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient
illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually oriented
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the
sketch or diagram of the premise required as part of the permit application
process.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.22 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, except adult
motels, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business
under this chapter, and knowingly allows such business to remain open for
business, or to permit any employee to engage in a performance, solicit a
performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or solicit a
service, before 8:00 a.m. or after midnight Monday through Saturday or at all
on Sundays or legal holidays recognized by the State of Ohio.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if, working as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for the business under this chapter, said employee knowingly
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service before 8:00 a.m. or after
midnight Monday through Saturday or at all on Sundays and legal holidays
recognized by the State of Ohio.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution for violation of this §
112.22, Hours of Operation, of this chapter that the business has a valid
liquor license from the state permitting it to operate beyond the hours
authorized pursuant to this chapter but only to the extent permitted by the
liquor permit.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.23 NUDITY AT SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), and in Paps A.M. v City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277
(2000), which upheld the rights of cities to prohibit live public exposure of a
person's private parts, specifically applies to sexually oriented businesses
(regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued to said businesses under
this chapter), including said businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold,
served, or consumed at the premises.
   (B)   Nudity is prohibited within any sexually oriented business
establishment in the village. Any sexually oriented business which is found in
violation of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the
provisions of §
112.13.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of §
112.23 of this chapter that a person appearing live in a state of nudity did so
in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state of Ohio; college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or:
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of §
112.23 of this chapter that an employee or independent contractor of a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is permitted under this
chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the employee's bona fide
use of a restroom, shower room or during the employee's or independent
contractor's bona fide use of a dressing room which is accessible only to
employees, and/or independent contractors or a private room in an adult motel.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of §
112.23 of this chapter that a person appearing live in a state of nudity was
dancing not for hire and did not receive any remuneration, monetary or
otherwise, was not promised any such compensation from any person for such
activities, and was not participating in a contest for which there is a prize
of any type.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.24 ADDITIONAL CRIMINAL PROHIBITIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT.
   In addition to the criminal provisions found at other sections of this
chapter, a person commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if he or she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and said person knows or should know that:
   (A)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit under
this chapter for any applicable classification;
   (B)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
   (C)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
   (D)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.25 FALSIFYING MATERIAL FACTS; ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE, AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF.
   (A)   Any person who willfully falsifies any material fact on any
application required by this chapter is guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.
   (B)   In addition to any penalties specifically stated herein, if any person
knowingly fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates any provision of
this chapter, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Each violation or noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. Further, each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the village from
taking such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or non-compliance. Such other
lawful actions shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action
for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
   (D)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the village and the village shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.26 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The village, the Chief of Police and his or her designee, the members of the
Planning Commission, the Village of Marblehead Police Department, the Village
Solicitor, Mayor, and all other departments and agencies, and all other village
officers, agents and employees, charged with enforcement of state and local
laws and codes shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for
reasonable, good faith trespass upon a sexually oriented business while acting
within the scope of authority conferred by this chapter.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.27 NOTICE.
   Any notices required pursuant to this chapter not otherwise specified herein
shall be sufficient if served by certified mail, return receipt requested or by
personal delivery to the applicants and permit holders affected at the business
or residential address listed on the application and addressed to the business
or applicant. If the permit is issued to an entity, service of notice as
provided above to the service agent listed on the application shall be
sufficient.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.28 APPEAL.
   (A)   If the Planning Commission issues a denial, suspension, or revocation
of a permit or application for a permit under this chapter, the Planning
Commission shall notify the applicant or permittee (respondent) in writing of
the denial, suspension or revocation of the permit or application, including
the grounds therefore, within three business days of such decision. The
notification shall be directed as provided in §
112.27. The notification shall include information regarding the right to file
an appeal as described below.
      (1)   Within ten days of service of such notice, the respondent may
provide to the Planning Commission in writing a response which shall include an
address at which notice may be sent by overnight mail or a telefax phone number
for notice of a hearing date, and a statement of reasons why the permit or
application should not be denied, suspended or revoked. A response shall be
deemed to have been received when delivered to the village of Marblehead
Offices at 513 West Main Street, Marblehead, Ohio 43440, during regular
business hours. If no response is received by the Planning Commission within
said ten days, the action shall become final. If a written notice is received
by the Planning Commission within said ten days, the Planning Commission shall
notify the respondent by overnight mail at the address provided or by telefax
to the phone number provided of the hearing date within three business days of
the receipt of such written response.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt of such written response, the
Planning Commission shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall have the
opportunity to present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf. The
respondent may appear and be heard in person, or by his or her attorney, in
opposition to the decision and do any of the following:
         (a)   Present his or her positions, arguments and contentions;
         (b)   Offer and examine witnesses and present evidence in support;
         (c)   Cross-examine witnesses purporting to refute respondent's
position, arguments and contentions;
         (d)   Offer evidence to refute evidence and testimony offered in
opposition to his or her position, arguments and contentions; and
         (e)   Proffer any such evidence into the record, if the admission is
denied by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Testimony shall be given under oath. The Planning Commission shall
have the power to subpoena witnesses or evidence and shall make such power
available to the respondent. The Planning Commission shall have a complete
record of the adjudication kept, including any evidence admitted or proffered.
If after the hearing the Planning Commission finds, by simple majority vote,
that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension or
revocation, then such action shall become final and notice of such final action
shall be sent to the applicant or permittee, by written decision. If the
Planning Commission finds, by a simply majority vote of the members present at
the hearing, that no grounds exist for denial, suspension or revocation of a
permit then the Planning Commission shall overturn the denial, suspension or
revocation of the permit or application. The Planning Commission shall notify
the respondent in writing by delivery, overnight mail, telefax or by certified
mail of such action. The Planning Commission shall send their decision within
five business days after the hearing.
      (4)   The notice of final decision shall contain:
         (a)   The case number or other identifier, the applicant and a brief
description of the matter before the Planning Commission;
         (b)   A designation as a final decision;
         (c)   A clear pronouncement of the Planning Commission's decision
including conclusions of fact supporting the final order;
         (d)   The signatures of the members of the Planning Commission; and
         (e)   The date the decision was mailed, faxed or delivered.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall conduct any hearing pursuant to this
section relating to an application for a sexually oriented business permit or
sexually oriented business employee or independent contractor permit, and
approve or deny the appeal within 30 days after notice is received by the
Planning Commission from the respondent of an appeal. The respondent may,
however, request a rescheduling or continuance of the hearing date set by the
Planning Commission, in which case the hearing date shall be extended for a
reasonable period, and the 30-day time period for the Planning Commission to
decide the appeal shall be extended by the number of days the hearing is
postponed due to the respondent's request.
   (B)   A suspension or revocation shall not be final and in effect if an
appeal is filed until the later of the Planning Commission's decision on the
appeal becoming final and expiration of any time period for initial appeal to
court from a denial of the appeal by the Planning Commission, or if an appeal
is taken to court, the entering of a judgment on the appeal by a court of
competent jurisdiction. The existing permit shall remain in effect during such
period.
   (C)   If the Planning Commission has received a written appeal objecting to
a denial of a permit/application, then the Planning Commission shall
immediately grant or continue a temporary permit to operate or work at the
sexually oriented business. The temporary permit shall continue in effect until
the later of Planning Commission's decision on the appeal being final and
expiration of any time period for initial appeal to court from a denial by the
Planning Commission of the appeal, or if an appeal is taken to court, the
entering of a judgment on the appeal by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Operations under such temporary permit shall be subject to all provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a permit has been appealed
and that decision becomes final, the applicant or permittee whose application
for a permit has been denied or whose permit has been suspended or revoked
shall have the right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.29 PRIVACY.
   All information obtained pursuant to this chapter shall be maintained as
confidential to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 112.30 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter and each section and provision of this chapter, are hereby
declared to be independent sections and subsections and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, the Council of the Village of Marblehead,
by adoption of the legislation containing this section, hereby states that it
is the controlling legislative intent that if any provisions of said chapter,
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or provisions and the application of such
sections and provisions to any person or circumstances other than those to
which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby
declared that such sections and provisions would have been passed independently
if such section or provision were so known to be invalid. The adoption of this
chapter in a single legislative act is merely for convenience. This Council
intends that each and every separate part hereof be severable so as to leave in
effect as much of this chapter as is not found invalid so as to provide as much
benefit to its citizens as possible while still protecting the rights
guaranteed under the First Amendment of the Constitution. The village further
states that the dispersal requirement, the location requirement, the permitting
process, for each type of sexually oriented business, permitting process for
employees, permitting process for independent contractors, regulation of permit
transfers, regulation of exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos in
video booths, standards of conduct and operation applicable to adult cabarets,
regulations regarding minors, advertising and lighting regulations, regulation
of hours of operation and prohibition of nudity at sexually oriented businesses
are each intended as separate and severable regulations of the village which
would, and could, have been adopted as separate legislative acts.
(Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Regulation of food trucks
   
113.03   Time limit for events
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   FOOD TRUCK. A motor vehicle or trailer, whether or not motorized, equipped
to cook and sell food to the public.
(Ord. 12, 2015, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 113.02 REGULATION OF FOOD TRUCKS.
   No food truck shall be permitted to stop, park or locate on any streets or
public property in the village for the purpose of preparing and selling food to
the general public unless the food truck stops or parks to prepare and sell
food on village owned property in connection with a festival or event that
requires a village event license pursuant to §
111.04(D)(1) or is a village sponsored event.
(Ord. 12, 2015, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 TIME LIMIT FOR EVENTS.
   If an event involves a food truck and is not on village property or not a
village sponsored event, the event cannot exceed four consecutive days and can
be held no more than four times within a 12-month period. An event of this
nature will not require a permit.
(Ord. 12, 2015, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this chapter shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If a
person is found guilty of violating this chapter twice within a 90-day period,
the party shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the 4th degree.
(Ord. 12, 2015, passed 1-13-2016)
CHAPTER 114: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
   
114.01   Medical marijuana prohibited
§ 114.01 MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   The cultivation, processing or retail dispensing of medical marijuana, even
under a license issued under R.C. Chapter 3796, is prohibited within the
village. The violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 6, 2017, passed 6-28-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
APPENDIX A: LOCAL REGULATIONS
OHIO LEGISLATIVE HISTORY REFERENCES – TITLE XIII
Ohio Revised Code Section 2024 Basic Code Section
Ohio Revised Code Section       2024 Basic Code Section
128.01(A)                       136.20(A)
128.96(F) - (H)                 136.20(B) - (D)
128.99(A), (B)                  136.20(E)
715.67                          130.99(A)
901.51                          131.21(A), (B)
901.99(A)                       131.21(C)
1349.17                         131.31(A) - (C)
1349.99(A)                      131.31(D)
1533.171(A)                     131.24(A),
                                135.05(A)
1533.99(C)                      131.24(B),
                                135.05(B)
2901.01                         130.02
2901.02                         130.03
2901.03                         130.04
2901.04                         130.05
2901.05                         130.13
2901.06                         130.14
2901.08                         130.15
2901.09                         130.21
2901.11                         130.16
2901.13                         130.06
2901.21                         130.07
2901.22                         130.08
2901.23                         130.09
2901.24                         130.10
2903.05                         135.02
2903.06                         135.03
2903.08                         135.03(F)
2903.09                         135.01
2903.10                         135.19
2903.13                         135.04(A)
2903.14                         135.04(B)
2903.16                         135.19
2903.21                         135.06(B)
2903.211                        135.06(C)
2903.22                         135.06(A)
2903.31                         135.17(A) - (D)
2903.311(B), (C)                135.17(E)
2903.33                         135.20(A)
2903.34                         135.20(B)
2903.341                        135.20(C)
2903.35                         135.20(D)
2903.36                         135.20(E)
2905.03                         135.07
2905.12                         135.09
2907.01                         133.01
2907.04                         133.02
2907.06                         133.03
2907.08                         133.05
2907.09                         133.04
2907.10                         133.06
2907.23                         133.07(A)
2907.231                        133.07(B)
2907.24                         133.08(A) - (D)
2907.241                        133.08(E) - (H)
2907.25                         133.09
2907.26                         133.13
2907.31                         133.10(A) - (E)
2907.311                        133.11
2907.33                         133.12
2907.35                         133.10(F)
2907.36                         133.14
2907.37                         133.15
2907.38                         133.16
2907.39                         133.17
2907.40                         133.18
2909.01                         131.01
2909.03                         131.02(A) - (D)
2909.06                         131.03(A)
2909.07                         131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                131.05
2909.09                         131.03(B)
2909.10                         131.34(A) - (D)
2909.101                        131.34(E), (F)
2909.11(B) - (D)                131.02(E)
2909.31                         136.21(E), (F)
2911.21                         131.06(A) - (F)
2911.211                        131.06(G)
2911.23                         131.06(H)
2911.32                         131.07
2913.01                         131.01
2913.02                         131.08
2913.03                         131.09
2913.04                         131.10(A) - (J)
2913.07                         131.33
2913.11                         131.11
2913.21                         131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)              131.26
2913.32                         131.27
2913.33                         131.13
2913.34                         131.29
2913.40                         131.23(C)
2913.401                        131.23(D)
2913.41                         131.14
2913.42                         131.15
2913.43                         131.16
2913.44                         131.28
2913.441                        132.11
2913.45                         131.17
2913.47                         131.23(A)
2913.48                         131.23(B)
2913.51                         131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                131.19
2913.71                         131.20
2913.72                         131.25(A)
2913.73                         131.25(B)
2915.01                         134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)           134.02
2915.03                         134.03
2915.04                         134.04
2915.05                         134.05
2915.06                         134.14(A), (B)
2915.061                        134.14(C)
2915.09                         134.06
2915.091                        134.10
2915.092                        134.11
2915.093                        134.12(A) - (F)
2915.094                        134.13
2915.10                         134.07
2915.11                         134.08
2915.12                         134.09
2915.13                         134.12(G)
2915.14                         134.15
2917.01                         132.10
2917.03                         132.01(A) - (C)
2917.031                        132.01(D)
2917.04                         132.02
2917.05                         132.03
2917.11                         132.04
2917.12                         132.05
2917.13                         132.06
2917.14                         132.15
2917.21                         132.07
2917.211                        133.20
2917.31                         132.08
2917.32                         132.09
2917.40                         132.13
2917.41                         132.14
2919.01                         135.10
2919.11                         135.11
2919.12                         135.11
2919.121                        135.11
2919.122                        135.11(H)
2919.14                         135.11(J)
2919.18                         135.11(I)
2919.21                         135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)           135.14
2919.224                        135.12
2919.23                         135.15(A)
2919.231                        135.15(B)
2919.24                         135.18
2919.25                         135.16
2919.27                         135.23
2921.01                         136.01
2921.04                         136.17
2921.13                         136.02(A) - (F)
2921.14                         136.14
2921.15                         136.19
2921.21                         136.03
2921.22                         136.04
2921.23                         136.05
2921.24                         136.16(A) - (D)
2921.25                         136.16(E), (F)
2921.29                         136.21(A) - (D)
2921.31                         136.06
2921.32                         136.07
2921.321                        136.15
2921.33                         136.08
2921.36                         136.13(A) - (G)
2921.37                         136.13(H)
2921.42                         136.09
2921.43                         136.10
2921.44                         136.11
2921.45                         136.12
2921.51                         132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                136.18
2923.02                         130.11
2923.03                         130.12
2923.11                         137.01
2923.12                         137.02
2923.122(C) - (G)               137.11
2923.126                        137.13(B)
2923.1211(B), (C)               137.13(A)
2923.1212                       137.13(C)
2923.131                        137.12
2923.15                         137.03
2923.16                         137.04
2923.162                        137.09
2923.18                         137.10
2923.19                         137.06
2923.20                         137.07
2923.201                        137.14
2923.211                        137.08
2923.24                         137.05
2925.01                         138.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)           138.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)    138.06
2925.11                         138.03
2925.12                         138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)           138.05
2925.14                         138.13(A) - (G)
2925.141                        138.13(H)
2925.31                         138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G) 138.10(A)
2925.33                         138.10(B)
2925.34                         138.19
2925.36(A) - (C)                138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                 138.12
2925.50                         138.09
2925.51                         138.11(A) - (F)
2925.511                        138.11(G)
2925.55                         138.18(A)
2925.56                         138.18(B)
2925.57                         138.18(C)
2925.58                         138.18(D)
2925.62                         138.20
2927.01                         135.28
2927.02                         135.25(A)
2927.021                        135.25(B)
2927.022                        135.25(C)
2927.023                        135.25(D)
2927.024                        135.25(E)
2927.03                         135.21
2927.11                         131.35
2927.12                         135.22
2927.15                         135.08
2927.17                         133.19
2927.27                         130.20
2929.21                         130.99(B)
2929.22                         130.18
2929.23                         133.99
2929.24                         130.99(C)
2929.25                         130.99(D)
2929.26                         130.99(E)
2929.27                         130.99(F)
2929.28                         130.99(G)
2929.31                         130.99(H)
2929.41                         130.19
2935.041                        131.22
2935.36(E)                      130.02
2981.07                         131.30
2981.11                         130.17(A)
2981.12                         130.17(B)
2981.13(A)                      130.17(C)
3701.81                         135.27(A) - (C)
3701.99(C)                      135.27(D)
3715.05                         138.18(E)
3715.06                         138.18(F)
3716.11                         135.24(A)
3716.99(C)                      135.24(B)
3719.08(A), (E)                 138.14(A), (B)
3719.172(A), (B)                138.15(A), (B)
3719.19                         138.09
3719.99(C)                      138.14(C)
3719.99(E)                      138.15(C)
3773.06                         137.09(D)
3773.99(A)                      137.09(D)
3781.55                         133.04(E)
3791.031                        135.26
4509.102                        136.02(G)
4731.481                        138.17(A)
4731.99(F)                      138.17(B)
4734.161                        138.17(A)
4734.99(B)                      138.17(B)
4933.18                         131.32(A) - (C)
4933.19                         131.32(D)
5589.12                         131.10(K)(1)
5589.99(B)                      131.10(K)(2)
 
 
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C.§ 737.10 as a special
patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and during the
time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E)) (Rev. 2024)
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Rev. 2012)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04) (Rev. 2005)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, “aggrieved
person” includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Rev. 2016)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Rev. 2016)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Rev. 2013)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Rev. 1999)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05) (Rev. 2022)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08) (Rev. 2017)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11) (Rev. 2006)
Statutory reference:
State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11) (Rev. 2018)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12) (Rev. 2016)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A)) (Rev. 2008)
Statutory reference:
Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Rev. 2024)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41) (Rev. 2013)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27) (Rev. 2001)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09) (Rev. 2022)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21) (Rev. 2005)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24) (Rev. 2024)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25) (Rev. 2024)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26) (Rev. 2015)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27) (Rev. 2012)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28) (Rev. 2024)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31) (Rev. 2004)
Cross-reference:
Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration, see
§
133.99
Statutory reference:
Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C. §
2935.26
Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter 2950
Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
Cross-reference:
Animals, offenses against, see §§
90.20 et seq.
Property recovered by police, deposit of stolen property, see §§
34.10 et seq.
Statutory reference:
Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony, see
R.C. § 2913.041
Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self- replicating or self-propagating and that are
designed to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify,
destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the
computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (Rev. 2015)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush- covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03) (Rev. 2018)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D)) (Rev. 2018)
Cross-reference:
Negligent burning, see §
91.38
Statutory reference:
Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09) (Rev. 2017)
Statutory reference:
Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Rev. 2022)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E)) (Rev. 1999)
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21) (Rev. 2022)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211) (Rev. 2022)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23) (Rev. 2007)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (G) of this
section, see §
33.01(E)
Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Rev. 1999)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Rev. 2000)
Statutory reference:
Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04) (Rev. 2019)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B)) (Rev. 2002)
Statutory reference:
Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Rev. 2022)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Rev. 2019)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41) (Rev. 2001)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43) (Rev. 2015)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Rev. 2014)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (Rev. 2015)
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Rev. 2022)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041) (Rev. 2012)
Statutory reference:
Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47) (Rev. 2012)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self- insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48) (Rev. 2012)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40) (Rev. 2014)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401) (Rev. 2014)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A)) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72) (Rev. 2010)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through 131.20, 131.23, 131.25 through 131.29, or 132.11, if the lack of
consent of the victim is an element of the provision that allegedly was
violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged violation, the victim
lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show that the victim did
not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73) (Rev. 2008)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2)) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection with
the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07) (Rev. 2012)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A)) (Rev. 2002)
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water- works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18) (Rev. 2013)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19) (Rev. 2013)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07) (Rev. 2005)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10) (Rev. 2022)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101) (Rev. 2020)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11) (Rev. 2020)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
Cross-reference:
Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03) (Rev. 1999)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Rev. 2005)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Rev. 2020)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Rev. 2024)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Rev. 2005)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Rev. 2017)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31) (Rev. 2024)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Rev. 2022)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51) (Rev. 2010)
Cross-reference:
Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40) (Rev. 1999)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41) (Rev. 2004)
§ 132.15 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14) (Rev. 2024)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
Sexual conduct with an animal, see §
90.37
Statutory reference:
Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Rev. 2024)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Rev. 2001)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty plea
of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09) (Rev. 2020)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55) (Rev. 2009)
Statutory reference:
Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Rev. 2024)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant’s attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender’s
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to 133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10) (Rev. 2024)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231) (Rev. 2024)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24) (Rev. 2022)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31) (Rev. 2004)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or 133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of
that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or 133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and
introduced into the electronic method of remotely transferring information or
content over which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or 133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer
unless the employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s
or agent’s employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35) (Rev. 2004)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through 133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such
offense or substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the
charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26) (Rev. 1999)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36) (Rev. 2000)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38) (Rev. 2007)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug- operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39) (Rev. 2007)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40) (Rev. 2009)
Statutory reference:
State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local adult
business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17) (Rev. 2015)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211) (Rev. 2020)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23) (Rev. 2008)
Cross-reference:
Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill- based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill- based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill- based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin- setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (Rev. 2014)
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Rev. 2003)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Rev. 2003)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Rev. 2012)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven- day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11) (Rev. 2003)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections 134.06 through 134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games
that are conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted
for the purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements
specified in either division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091) (Rev. 2013)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092) (Rev. 2024)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093) (Rev. 2022)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13) (Rev. 2022)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094) (Rev. 2013)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06) (Rev. 2008)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061) (Rev. 2020)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14) (Rev. 2022)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing; abortion
trafficking
   
135.12   Misrepresentation relating to provision of child care
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for a person with a functional impairment
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
Statutory reference:
Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through 135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09) (Rev. 2020)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic- related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06) (Rev. 2020)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G)) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Rev. 1997)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (A) of this
section, see §
33.01(E)
Statutory reference:
Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A)) (Rev. 1999)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C)) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
            1.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
            2.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker
of an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know
that the other person is a family or household member or co- worker of an
emergency service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage
in the specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense
related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the
responder’s official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the
other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same
conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
         EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211) (Rev. 2017)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (C) of this
section, see §
33.01(E)
Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain circumstances,
see R.C. § 2903.215
Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Rev. 2008)
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15) (Rev. 2021)
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12) (Rev. 2016)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING; ABORTION
TRAFFICKING.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 1, enacting an amendment
to the Ohio Constitutional relating to reproductive rights. As of the time of
this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state statutes to
reflect necessary changes, if any.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. Means the purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any
person, including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to
produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self- subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. Means a woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age
who has not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become
employed and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the
care and control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122) (Rev. 1999)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18) (Rev. 2012)
   (J)   Abortion trafficking.
      (1)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (j) of this section is guilty of abortion
trafficking, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
Statutory reference:
Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider’s
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider’s facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, “any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care” includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224) (Rev. 2024)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21) (Rev. 2024)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H)) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or
physical disability under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with
mental illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231) (Rev. 2002)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) (Rev. 2011)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see §
33.01(E)
Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider, bail,
see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post- secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post- secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31) (Rev. 2023)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post- secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C)) (Rev. 2023)
Statutory reference:
Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24) (Rev. 2018)
Statutory reference:
Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16) (Rev. 2024)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person’s own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10) (Rev. 2024)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341) (Rev. 2024)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03) (Rev. 2009)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12) (Rev. 2002)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27) (Rev. 2024)
Cross-reference:
Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see §
33.01(E)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C)) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         (g)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         (h)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   (a)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of
this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21
years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   (a)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         (b)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (A)(6)(a)1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)
(e), (A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), (A)(2)(h), (A)(3) or (A)(6) of this section is
guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021) (Rev. 2015)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022) (Rev. 2020)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         (b)   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words “cigarettes”, “electronic smoking
devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023) (Rev. 2024)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024) (Rev. 2020)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031) (Rev. 2024)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81) (Rev. 2024)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C)) (Rev. 2005)
Statutory reference:
Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
Contempt of court, see §§
33.20 et seq.
Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01) (Rev. 2014)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13) (Rev. 2016)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102) (Rev. 2016)
Statutory reference:
Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Rev. 1999)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super- heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician- patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse- patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Rev. 2024)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Rev. 2000)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) (Rev. 2003)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Rev. 2008)
Statutory reference:
Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43) (Rev. 2006)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Rev. 2016)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45) (Rev. 2022)
Statutory reference:
Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36) (Rev. 2022)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance in a
courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321) (Rev. 2024)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24) (Rev. 2008)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25) (Rev. 2008)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04) (Rev. 2013)
Statutory reference:
Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D)) (Rev. 1997)
Statutory reference:
Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15) (Rev. 2001)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A)) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H)) (Rev. 2024)
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B)) (Rev. 2014)
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29) (Rev. 2007)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31) (Rev. 2007)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11) (Rev. 2020)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance in a
courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.131
Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all- purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20) (Rev. 2022)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211) (Rev. 2010)
Statutory reference:
Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162) (Rev. 2005)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
(Rev. 2003)
Statutory reference:
Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non- consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18) (Rev. 2022)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G)) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131) (Rev. 2002)
Statutory reference:
Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C. §
2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C)) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five- year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126) (Rev. 2024)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212) (Rev. 2020)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201) (Rev. 2007)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 2, legalizing
recreational marijuana use and cultivation under certain circumstances. As of
the time of this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state
statutes to reflect necessary changes, if any.
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. § 2925.64
Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals, see
R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses, see
R.C. Chapter 2981
Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl- beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2- phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2- phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
N-phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2- phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2- (thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N- [1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1- methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para- fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider’s
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech- language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01) (Rev. 2024)
§ 138.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 2, legalizing
recreational marijuana use and cultivation under certain circumstances. As of
the time of this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state
statutes to reflect necessary changes, if any.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I)) (Rev. 2020)
Statutory reference:
Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 2, legalizing
recreational marijuana use and cultivation under certain circumstances. As of
the time of this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state
statutes to reflect necessary changes, if any.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on- duty
peace officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care
facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post- release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11) (Rev. 2024)
Statutory reference:
Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12) (Rev. 2024)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F)) (Rev. 2019)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 2, legalizing
recreational marijuana use and cultivation under certain circumstances. As of
the time of this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state
statutes to reflect necessary changes, if any.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony, see
R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31) (Rev. 2020)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 2, legalizing
recreational marijuana use and cultivation under certain circumstances. As of
the time of this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state
statutes to reflect necessary changes, if any.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19) (Rev. 2002)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)) (Rev. 2001)
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33) (Rev. 2017)
Statutory reference:
Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51) (Rev. 2002)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511) (Rev. 2007)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G)) (Rev. 2019)
Statutory reference:
Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
Editor’s note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 2, legalizing
recreational marijuana use and cultivation under certain circumstances. As of
the time of this printing, the Ohio Legislature had not yet amended the state
statutes to reflect necessary changes, if any.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14) (Rev. 2024)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141) (Rev. 2024)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E)) (Rev. 2018)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C)) (Rev. 1999)
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E)) (Rev. 1999)
Statutory reference:
Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
(Rev. 2020)
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161) (Rev. 2024)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55) (Rev. 2014)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56) (Rev. 2014)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57) (Rev. 2014)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58) (Rev. 2007)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05) (Rev. 2014)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06) (Rev. 2007)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34) (Rev. 2020)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62) (Rev. 2023)
TITLE XIII, APPENDIX A: LOCAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
1   Firearms
   
2   Curfew
   
3   Fireworks
§ 1 FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, except as
provided in division (B) of this section and except when legally hunting,
within the village. Hunting shall be permitted in the village when done legally
and in accordance with federal and state hunting laws, rules and regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Discharging a firearm shall be permitted upon written approval
from the Chief of Police and the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The discharge of firearms must be on a parcel of land larger
than five acres and owned by the person requesting the permission.
         (b)   The discharge of firearms is only permitted between 9:00 a.m.
and one hour before sundown.
         (c)   The Chief of Police has unfettered discretion to grant or deny
the permission to discharge firearms even if the criteria in divisions (B)(1)
(a) and (B)(1)(b) are met. The Chief may deny permission if, after inspecting
the property, the Chief determines there is any safety issue.
      (2)   This exception is only available for the use of the property
owners. This exception is not available if the permission is used for members
of the general public or members of an organized club or similar organization.
      (3)   The Chief, in his or her sole discretion, may revoke the permission
if the Chief determines this section is not followed or that the permission
presents a safety hazard. The revocation of permission shall be in writing.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, whether or
not legally hunting, upon or over a public road or highway in the village, to
discharge a firearm within 500 feet of a residence, business or other
potentially occupied building, whether or not legally hunting.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person without the written permit or
proclamation of the Chief of Police within the village, to throw, cast or
discharge any squib, rocket, firework, cannon cracker or other thing charged
with explosives, or to cast any fireball or other thing charged with spirits or
other combustible material.
   (E)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self-defense or
by law enforcement in furtherance of their official duties or when the Chief of
Police gives written authorization to discharge a firearm as part of a
celebration or ceremony.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree and shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99.
(Ord. 26, 1997, passed 11-13-1997; Am. Ord. 35, 2005, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
9, 2007, passed 8-9-2007)
§ 2 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew hours.
      (1)   No person who is 17 years of age or younger shall be in or upon any
public place during the period ending at 6:00 a.m., and beginning at:
         (a)   10:00 p.m. for minors 14 years of age or younger;
         (b)   11:00 p.m. for minors 15 years of age or older.
      (2)   The provisions and limitations in division (A)(1) shall be in
effect daily, with the exception of Fridays and Saturdays. At such other times,
and during other periods, the curfew period shall end at 6:00 a.m. and shall
begin at:
         (a)   11:00 p.m. for minors 14 years of age or younger;
         (b)   12:00 midnight for minors 15 years of age or older.
      (3)   Any minor who is found to be in violation of any provision of this
division (A) shall have committed an act of unruly conduct, and shall be cited
to the Juvenile Court of Ottawa County, Ohio, in relation thereto.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the
operation of the curfew limitations established by this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent;
      (2)   When the minor is accompanied by an adult person who has been
authorized by a parent of the minor to take the parent's place in accompanying
the minor for a designated period of time, and in relation to a designated
purpose;
      (3)   When the minor is exercising his or her rights under the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution, such as free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech, and the right of assembly, provided the minor first has
given notice to the Police Department and the village by delivering to the
Police Department a written communication signed by the minor and
countersigned, if practicable, by a parent or the minor which specifies when,
where, in what manner, and for what First Amendment purpose the minor will be
on the streets at night during the curfew period;
      (4)   When the minor is on the sidewalk, treelawn or devil’s strip of the
place wherein such minor resides, or of properties directly adjacent thereto
absent objection from the owners and/or occupants of the same;
      (5)   While engaged in lawful employment;
      (6)   While returning home by a direct route from his or her lawful
employment, a school activity, an activity of a religious, other voluntary
entity, or a public association or group; or from a place of public
entertainment, such as a movie, play, concert, organized recreational activity,
sporting event or amusement park; from and within 30 minutes of the termination
of the same; and
      (7)   When the minor is a married or otherwise emancipated person.
   (C)   Parental responsibility.
      (1)   No person having legal custody of a minor shall knowingly permit,
or, by inefficient control, allow such minor to be in or upon any public place
in violation of a curfew limitation established hereby, and under circumstances
not constituting an exception hereto. KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a
parent reasonably should be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
minor in his or her custody.
      (2)   It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation under this
division (C) that the parent involved within 30 days preceding the alleged
offense filed or caused to be filed a complaint against the minor alleging him
or her to be an unruly child under R.C. Chapter 2151, which complaint has been
adjudicated or is then pending.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth
hereinbelow:
      MINOR. Any person 17 years of age or younger.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody or residence of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   As a person to whom the legal custody or residence has been
given by court order.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, highway, alley. thoroughfare, or right-of-way,
including sidewalks; any park, playground, ground, place or building open to
the public; any privately-owned or publicly-owned place of amusement,
entertainment, recreation, or public accommodation, including parking lots and
other areas adjacent thereto; and any vacant lot or land, or, if the presence
of the minor thereupon is without the consent or knowledge of the owner, any
private property.
      TIME OF NIGHT. The prevailing standard of time, generally observed at
that hour by the public in the village, prima facie evidence of which shall be
the time then observed in the administrative offices and the Division of Police
of the village.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Marblehead, Ohio.
      YEAR OF AGE. Shall continue from one birthday through, but not including
the next, so that the phrase "17 years of age or less" shall be equivalent to
the phrase "under 18 years of age"; and the phrase "11 years of age or less"
shall be equivalent to "under 12 years of age".
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any minor who is alleged to be in violation of division (A) of this
section shall be alleged to be an unruly child, and shall be dealt with in
accordance with law and procedure applicable to juvenile offenders;
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section shall be guilty of
contributing to the unruliness of a minor within the meaning of R.C. § 2919.24,
a misdemeanor of the first degree, and shall be dealt with in accordance with
law and procedure applicable to the juvenile courts of the State of Ohio; and
      (3)   Each and every violation under this section as to a separate curfew
period shall be and constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 13, 2007, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 3 FIREWORKS.
   The discharge, ignition, or exploding of fireworks as set forth in R.C. §
3743.45 is hereby prohibited at all times except the following days. On the
following days the discharge, ignition, or exploding of fireworks is permitted
as set forth in R.C. § 3743.45:
   (A)   The first day of January;
   (B)   The fourth day of July;
   (C)   The first Monday of September; and
   (D)   December 31.
(Ord.16-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
      
151.   WATERFRONT PLAN
      
152.   TRAILERS, HOUSETRAILER PARKS AND CAMPS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Statutory authorization
   
150.002   Findings of fact
   
150.003   Statement of purpose
   
150.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
150.005   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
150.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
150.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.008   Interpretation
   
150.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
150.010   Severability
Definitions
   
150.020   Definitions
Administration
   
150.030   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
150.031   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
150.032   Floodplain development permits
   
150.033   Application required
   
150.034   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
150.035   Inspections
   
150.036   Post-construction certifications required
   
150.037   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
150.038   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
150.039   State and federal development
   
150.040   Map maintenance activities
   
150.041   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
150.042   Use of preliminary flood insurance rate map and/or flood insurance
study data
   
150.043   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.050   Generally
   
150.051   Use regulations
   
150.052   Water and wastewater systems
   
150.053   Subdivisions and other new developments
   
150.054   Residential structures
   
150.055   Nonresidential structures
   
150.056   Accessory structures
   
150.057   Recreational vehicles
   
150.058   Gas or liquid storage tanks
   
150.059   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
   
150.060   Development standards for coastal high hazard areas
Appeals and Variances
   
150.070   Appeals Board established
   
150.071   Powers and duties
   
150.072   Appeals
   
150.073   Variances
   
150.074   Procedure at hearings
   
150.075   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
150.085   Compliance required
   
150.086   Notice of violation
   
150.087   Violations and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   ARTICLE XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village
Council of Marblehead, State of Ohio, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)    Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their
actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.005 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
150.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Study, Ottawa County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas,
and Flood Insurance Rate Map, Ottawa County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas, both
effective December 1, 2022.
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard.
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the village as required by §
150.053 Subdivisions and Other New Developments.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at 513 W. Main Street, Marblehead, Ohio.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations are not intended to repeal,
abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
However, where this ordinance and another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed
restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the Village of Marblehead, any
officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for
any flood damage that results from reliance on these regulations or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.010 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of these regulations be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the
part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
DEFINITIONS
§ 150.020 DEFINITIONS.
  
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or the 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in Feet Mean Sea Level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base
flood elevation is the lowest adjacent natural grade elevation plus the depth
number (from one to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL.  A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast, and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. A coastal high hazard area is identified on a community's FIRM by the
designation of zone VE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).  The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1))   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
in any given year; base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   Zones A1-30 and Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood in any given year; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
in any given year; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow
on sloping terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood
in any given year; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of
ponding); base flood elevations are determined.
      (5)   Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   Zone B and Zone X (shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   Zone C and Zone X (unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
      (8)   Zone V: Coastal special flood hazard area subject to a 100-year
flood from velocity hazard (wave action); base flood elevations are not
determined.
      (9)   Zone VE and VI-30: Coastal special flood hazard area subject to a
100-year from velocity hazard (wave action); base flood elevations are
determined.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION, or FPE, is the
base flood elevation. In areas where no base flood elevations exist from any
authoritative source, the flood protection elevation can be historical flood
elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY.  
      (1)   A FLOODWAY is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge. A FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood waters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A LETTER OF MAP CHANGE is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A comment by FEMA
regarding a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the
hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in
the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood
elevations, or the special flood hazard area. A CLOMR does not amend or revise
effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, or flood
insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an “enclosure below the
lowest floor” which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”. For the purposes
of these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and
mobile homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 4781.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the Ohio Adm. Code 4781-12-01(K), a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK means any tract of land upon which three or more
manufactured homes, used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle,
or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the park. A
tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or
rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a manufactured home park, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority. Manufactured home park does not
include any tract of land used solely for the storage or display for sale of
manufactured homes.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The NFIP is a Federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain regulation adopted by Marblehead
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes
of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM
[February 1, 1984], and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in R.C. § 111.15(A)(2)
as any governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to,
any board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council,
institution, state college or university, community college district, technical
college district, or state community college. "Agency" does not include the
general assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general's department, or
any court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture pursuant to R.C. §§ 4703.01 and 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as "Areas of Special Flood Hazard", it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, A99, or V, VE. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also
refer to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal state or
local sources of data including but not limited to historical flood information
reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone
soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to the 'before damaged' condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred "substantial
damage," regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations.
   VIOLATION. A structure or other development to be fully compliant with these
regulations.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.030 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement
these regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.031 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas.
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed.
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, floodproofmg
certificates, VE-zone construction certifications, variances, and records of
enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.032 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including but not limited to filling, grading,
construction, alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
150.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.033 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required for all
development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in contact
with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by
the owner of the property or his/her authorized agent, herein referred to as
the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form
furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether a development site is
in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an
application for a floodplain development permit to determine the development's
location. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
   (C)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures.
   (D)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
   (E)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
      (1)   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in §
150.055.
      (2)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a
structure not meeting the design requirements of §
150.054(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
      (3)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
150.059(C).
      (4)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
150.059(B).
      (5)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact of
any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
150.059(A).
      (6)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and other new
developments as required by §
150.053.
      (7)   Certification of structural design and methods of construction for
VE zone construction as required by §
150.060(A).
      (8)   Certification of breakaway wall design, when applicable, as
provided in §
150.060(B).
   (F)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule of
fees adopted by the village.
Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.034 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
150.033 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If the Floodplain Administrator is satisfied that the development
proposed in the floodplain development application conforms to the requirements
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue the permit. All
floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the commencement of
work within 180 days. A floodplain development permit shall expire 180 days
after issuance unless the permitted activity has been substantially begun and
is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.035 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.036 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
federal emergency management agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered professional surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For
elevated structures in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation,
the elevation certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's
representative.
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
150.040(A), a Letter of Map Revision.
   (C)   For new or substantially improved nonresidential structures that have
been floodproofed in lieu of elevation, where allowed, the applicant shall
supply a completed floodproofing certificate for non-residential structures
completed by a registered professional engineer or architect together with
associated documentation.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.037 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
150.070 through
150.075 of these regulations.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.038 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be required for
maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing, or for small
nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading) valued at
less than $2500.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.039 STATE AND FEDERAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Development that is funded, financed, undertaken, or preempted by
state agencies shall comply with minimum NFIP criteria.
   (B)   Before awarding funding or financing or granting a license, permit, or
other authorization for a development that is or is to be located within a 100-
year floodplain, a state agency shall require the applicant to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the agency that the development will comply with minimum
NFIP criteria and any applicable local floodplain management resolution or
ordinance as required by R.C.§ 1521.13. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Commerce and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio Administrative
Code Section 4781-12.
      (2)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906.
      (3)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734.
   (C)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management. Each federal
agency has a responsibility to evaluate the potential effects of any actions it
may take in a floodplain; to ensure that its planning programs and budget
request reflect consideration of flood hazards and floodplain management; and
to prescribe procedures to implement the policies and requirements of EO 11988.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.040 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the village's flood
maps, studies and other data identified in §
150.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or other new development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
150.053.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with this division (A), prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in riverine areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1)
above.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor, and may be submitted at
any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the Village of Marblehead Flood Insurance
Rate Map accurately represent the village boundaries, there shall be included
within such notification a copy of a map of the Village of Marblehead suitable
for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for
which the Village of Marblehead has assumed or relinquished floodplain
management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.041 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard:
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
150.070 through
150.075 Appeals and Variances.
   (D)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.042 USE OF PRELIMINARY FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP AND/OR FLOOD INSURANCE
STUDY DATA.
   (A)   Zone A:
      (1)   Within Zone A areas designated on an effective FIRM, data from the
preliminary FIRM and/or FIS shall reasonably utilized as best available data.
      (2)   When all appeals have been resolved and a notice of final food
elevation determination has been provided in a Letter of Final Determination
(LFD), BFE and floodway data from the preliminary FIRM and/or FIS shall be used
for regulating development.
   (B)   Zones AE, AI-30, AH, VE, and Vl-30:
      (1)   BFE and floodway data from a preliminary FIS or FIRM restudy are
not required to be used in lieu of BFE and floodway data contained in an
existing effective FIS and FIRM. However,
         (a)   Where BFEs increase in a restudied area, communities have the
responsibility to ensure that new or substantially improved structures are
protected. Communities are encouraged to reasonably utilize preliminary FIS or
FIRM data in instances where BFEs increase and floodways are revised to ensure
that the health, safety, and property of their citizens are protected.
         (b)   Where BFEs decrease, preliminary FIS or FIRM data should not be
used to regulate floodplain development until the LFD has been issued or until
all appeals have been resolved.
      (2)   If a preliminary FIRM or FIS has designated floodways where none
had previously existed, communities should reasonably utilize this data in lieu
of applying the encroachment performance standard of §
150.059(B) since the data in the draft or preliminary FIS represents the best
data available.
   (C)   Zones B, C, and X: Use of BFE and floodway data from a preliminary
FIRM or FIS are not required for areas designated as Zone B, C, or X on the
effective FIRM which are being revised to Zone AE, Al-30, AH, VE, or Vl-30.
Communities are encouraged to reasonably utilize preliminary FIS or FIRM data
to ensure that the health, safety, and property of their citizens are
protected.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.043 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, etc. After such a damage event, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Require owners of substantially damaged structures to obtain a
floodplain development permit prior to repair, rehabilitation, or
reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.050 GENERALLY.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §
150.006, §
150.041(A), or §
150.042.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.051 USE REGULATIONS.
   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or any
other applicable land use regulation adopted by Marblehead are allowed provided
they meet the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.052 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems in the absence of any more restrictive standard provided
under the Ohio Revised Code or applicable state rules:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.053 SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
150.040(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) above of this
section.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.054 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   The requirements of this §
150.054 apply to new construction of residential structures and to substantial
improvements of residential structures in zones A, Al-30, AE, AO, and AH, when
designated on the community's effective FIRM, and when designated on a
preliminary or final FIRM issued by FEMA under the circumstances provided in §
150.042.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (this division
(A)) and construction materials resistant to flood damage (division(B) below)
are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings to allow the automatic equalization of hydrostatic pressure may
have an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the
following standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.055 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   The requirements of this §
150.055 apply to new construction and to substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures in zones A, Al-30, AE, AO, and AH, when designated on
the community's effective FIRM, and when designated on a preliminary or final
FIRM issued by FEMA under the circumstances provided in §
150.042.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
150.054(A) - (C) and (E) - (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and,
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency Floodproofing
Certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.056 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Structures that are 600 square feet or less which are used for parking and
storage only are exempt from elevation or dry floodproofing standards within
zones A, Al- 30, AE, AO, and AH designated on the community's FIRM. Such
structures must meet the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
150.054(E)(3).
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.057 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles on sites within zones A, A1-A30, AE, AO, or AH must
meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days, or
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
   (C)   They must be placed on the site pursuant to a floodplain development
permit issued under §§
150.032 and
150.033, and meet all standards of §
150.054.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.058 GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Within zone A, A1-A30, AE, AO, or AH, new or substantially improved
above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation
or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (B)   In zones V or VE, new or substantially improved above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be elevated with the bottom of the lowest horizontal
supporting member above BFE on the landward side of buildings.
   (C)   In zones V or VE, new or substantially improved underground gas or
liquid storage tanks must be installed below the lowest eroded ground
elevation.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.059 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in Section 3.11
(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor of Marblehead and the Chief Executive
Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than 1.0 (one) foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that this standard has been met; or,
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible;
         (b)   Divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c)-(e) above.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the “bankfull
stage.” The field determination of “bankfull stage” shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a Federal, State, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with
Marblehead specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
150.040(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.060 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS.
   The requirements of this §
150.060 apply to development in coastal high hazard areas designated zone V or
VE on the community's effective FIRM (and when designated on a preliminary or
final FIRM issued by FEMA under the circumstances provided in §
150.042).
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated on
pilings or columns that may be armored as necessary to withstand Lake Erie ice
forces so that:
      (1)   The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member supporting
the lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation, and
      (2)   The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is
anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the effects
of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components.
         (a)   Water loading values shall be those associated with the base
flood.
         (b)   Wind loading values shall be those defined according to American
Society of Civil Engineers 7-13 Minimum design loads and associated criteria
for buildings and other structures, or current version adopted by Ohio Board of
Building Standards.
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or
review the structural design, specifications and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction to be used are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-
supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work, or insect screening
intended to collapse without causing collapse, displacement, or other
structural damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting
foundation system.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), a breakaway wall shall have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds
per square foot.
      (2)   Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading
resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or where so required
by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet all of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood; and
         (b)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and non-structural). Water loading values shall
be those associated with the base flood. Wind loading values shall be those
defined according to American Society of Civil Engineers 7-16 Minimum design
loads and associated criteria for buildings and other structures, or equivalent
standard.
         (3)   All space enclosed by breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work,
or insect screening below the lowest floor shall be used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage.
   (C)   The use of fill or redistributed existing fill, placed after the
initial identification of Zones V, VE or VI-30 on the community's FIRM, for
structural support of buildings is prohibited.
   (D)   Alteration of sand dunes that will increase potential flood damage is
prohibited.
   (E)   Placement or substantial improvement of manufactured homes must comply
with divisions (A) through (E) of this section.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles must either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Comply with divisions (A) through (E) above of this section.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 150.070 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Village of Marblehead Planning Commission is hereby appointed to
serve as the Appeals Board for these regulations as established by §
154.274 of this code.
   (B)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed at 513 West Main
Street, Marblehead, Ohio.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.071 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   The Appeals Board shall authorize variances in accordance with §
150.073 of these regulations.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.072 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within 21 days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator's decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.073 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   A floodplain development variance application shall be accompanied
by a variance application fee as contained in the schedule of fees adopted by
the Village Council.
   (B)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and hold a
public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing.
       (1)   At such hearing the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations and the following factors:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area.
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws.
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (3)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (D)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (k)
above of this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.074 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.075 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Ottawa County Court of Common Pleas, pursuant to R.C. Chapter
2506.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.085 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
150.038.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
150.087.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
150.087.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.086 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he shall give notice of such
violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with these
regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
   (B)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of
these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   (C)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (D)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;
   (E)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 150.087 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
Village of Marblehead. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village of
Marblehead from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. The Village of Marblehead shall prosecute any violation
of these regulations in accordance with the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 17-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
CHAPTER 151: WATERFRONT PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Establishment of districts
   
151.04   Appeals
   
151.05   Amendments
   
151.06   Validity and separability
   
151.07   Open Meeting Law
Interpretation and Application
   
151.20   Interpretation and application
   
151.21   Interpretation of waterfront map plan
Waterfront Plan Permits
   
151.35   Permit required
   
151.36   Permit application information
   
151.37   Permit procedure and time limits
   
151.38   Enforcement
Uses and Variances
   
151.50   Permitted uses
   
151.51   Procedure for variances
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business licenses, see
Ch. 110
   Watercraft dockage tax, see
Ch. 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the public health,
peace, safety, morals, comfort; convenience and general welfare; to preserve,
protect, develop, restore, or enhance the resources of the coastal area and to
ensure wise use of the land and water resources of the coastal area, giving
attention to natural, cultural, historic, present established uses and
aesthetic values; agricultural, recreational, energy and economic needs; the
national interest and the management of coastal development and redevelopment.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COASTAL AREA. The waters of Lake Erie, and the lands under and adjacent to
the lake, including transitional areas, wetlands, and beaches. The COASTAL AREA
extends in Lake Erie to the international boundary line between the United
States and Canada and landward only to the extent necessary to include
shorelands, the uses of which have a direct and significant impact on coastal
waters as determined by the Director of Natural Resources.
   COASTAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any territory within the coastal area that has
been identified as a flood hazard area under the Flood Disaster Protection Act
of 1973, 87 Stat. 975, being primarily 42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq., as amended.
   DOCK. Any structure or surface, such as a pier or wharf, constructed of any
type of material, alongside of which, or within which a watercraft may lie.
   EROSION HAZARD AREA. Any territory included in the Lake Erie erosion hazard
area identified by the Director of Natural Resources under Ohio R.C. § 1506.06.
   PERSON. Any agency of this state, any political subdivision of this state or
of the United States, and any legal entity defined as a PERSON under Ohio R.C.
§ 1.59.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in
the ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
   TEMPORARY DOCK. A platform placed in the water in close proximity to the
shore and used for access to the water, which adjusts to fluctuating water
levels and is usually easily removable.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following waterfront plan districts are hereby established for the
Village of Marblehead, Ohio.
 
R-1  Residential - 1 District
R-2  Residential - 2 District
R-JI Residential - Johnson's Island
B    Business District
M    Manufacturing District
I    Institutional District
 
   (B)   The purpose of the waterfront plan districts are as follows.
      (1)   Residential - 1, Residential - 2 and Residential - Johnson's Island
Districts. The purpose of the Residential - 1, Residential - 2 and Residential
- Johnson's Island Districts are to accommodate residential uses of the coastal
area in locations developed with single-family, two-family and multi-family
residential units.
      (2)   Business District. The purpose of this district is to provide for
the business use of the coastal area at locations developed with business
facilities.
      (3)   Manufacturing District. The purpose of this district is to provide
for the manufacturing use of the coastal area at locations developed with
manufacturing facilities.
      (4)   Institutional District. The purpose of this district is to provide
for the institutional use of the coastal area at locations developed with
institutional facilities.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.04 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any appeal of the decision of the Village Council shall be made in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 2506.
   (B)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.05 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   By ordinance. Whenever the public necessity or other good cause is
shown, the Council may by ordinance, after holding a public hearing, amend,
supplement or change the regulations, district boundaries or classifications of
property now or hereafter established by this chapter.
   (B)   Initiation. Amendments or supplements to the Waterfront Planning
Chapter may be initiated as follows:
      (1)   By motion of the Village Planning Commission;
      (2)   By motion of a majority of the members of the full Village Council
and certification of same to the Village Planning Commission; or
      (3)   By the filing of an application by one or more of the owners or
lessees of property within the area proposed to be changed or affected by the
proposed amendment or supplement with the Village Planning Commission.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Applications initiated by private owners or lessees for any change
of district boundaries or reclassification of districts as shown on the zoning
map shall be filed with the Planning Commission upon forms prescribed by the
Commission and accompanied by such data and information prescribed for that
purpose by the Commission.
      (2)   Written application shall be made to the Planning Commission, or
its authorized agent.
      (3)   Accurate information shall be supplied by the applicant with regard
to the size and location of the lot, the size and location of buildings and
structures proposed and existing on the lot, the dimensions of all yards and
open spaces and other information necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (D)   Fees. A fee as established by Village Council shall be paid to the
village upon the filing of each application for change of district
classification, except actions initiated by the Planning Commission or Village
Council.
   (E)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   (a)   Upon receipt of the application, upon motion of the Village
Council, or upon their own motion, the Planning Commission shall have 45 days
to act on the motion or application.
         (b)   Such action shall be taken at a regularly scheduled meeting of
the Planning Commission that is open to the public.
         (c)   At such meeting, a majority of the full Planning Commission
shall determine what recommendation should be made to the Village Council.
         (d)   The Commission shall study the proposed change in the terms of
the public necessity, convenience, general welfare and good waterfront planning
practice.
         (e)   If no majority of the Planning Commission can be obtained, then
the recommendation will be deemed as opposed to the application or motion.
      (2)   The Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each question and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official action, all of which shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the
Village Council and shall be a public record.
   (F)   Commission recommendation to Council. The Planning Commission shall,
within ten days after determining its recommendation, recommend the approval or
denial of the proposed amendment or supplement, or the approval of some
modification thereof in writing to the Clerk of the Village Council.
   (G)   Public hearing by Council.
      (1)   Within 14 days of the receipt of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the Clerk of the Village Council shall set forth the recommendation
of the Planning Commission in ordinance form and schedule a public hearing.
      (2)   At this public hearing, the ordinance representing the
recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be introduced and given its
first formal reading.
   (H)   Action by Council.
      (1)   The Village Council shall either adopt or deny the ordinance, or
adopt some modification thereof within 65 days of the first reading of the
ordinance or any modification thereto.
      (2)   (a)   In the event the Village Council modifies the recommendation
of the Commission, an affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the full
Village Council shall be required to enact such modification.
         (b)   The affirmative vote of at least a majority of full Council
shall be required to adopt any recommendation of the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Any recommendation that does not receive at least an affirmative
majority vote of full Council shall be deemed denied and rendered ineffective.
         (d)   No such ordinance shall be passed unless it has been read on
three different days except that such ordinance may become emergency
legislation if the Village Council votes to dispense with this rule.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.06 VALIDITY AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that, if any
provision or provisions of this chapter or the application thereof to any lot,
coastal area, building or structure are declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, or to be
inapplicable to any person or situation, the effect of such decision shall be
limited to the provision or provisions expressly stated in the decision to be
invalid or ineffective, or to the lot, coastal area, building or structure
immediately involved in the controversy.
   (B)   All other provisions of this chapter shall continue to be separate and
fully effective, and the application of any such provisions to other persons or
situations shall not be effected.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.07 OPEN MEETING LAW.
   It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the passage of this chapter were adopted in an open
meeting of this Council, and that all such deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions, were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements including Ohio
R.C. § 121.22.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION
§ 151.20 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   In interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements accepted for the preservation,
protection, development, restoration and enhancement of the resources of the
coastal area.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or
interfere with any provision of law or any rules or regulations, adopted or
issued pursuant to law relating to the construction and use of structures or
premises.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.21 INTERPRETATION OF WATERFRONT MAP PLAN.
   (A)   Districts referred to in this chapter are as shown on the Village of
Marblehead zoning map, which map is made a part hereof by reference. A
certified copy of this map is on file in the office of the Fiscal Officer of
the Village of Marblehead.
   (B)   Where there is uncertainty as to the boundaries of any of the
districts shown on the aforesaid map, the following shall apply:
      (1)   The district boundary lines are intended to follow street, alley,
lot or property lines as they exist at the time of the passage of this chapter
unless otherwise indicated by dimensions of the map. In case of the vacation of
a street, alley, watercourse or other right-of-way, the abutting district on
each side thereof shall automatically be extended to the center line of the
vacated street, alley, watercourse or other right-of-way.
      (2)   Boundaries within ten feet of and apparently following lines of
lots of record shall be assumed to be corresponding to the lot line in question
unless otherwise specifically noted on the waterfront plan map.
      (3)   All submerged lands (below high water datum, which is 572.8 feet
I.G.L.D.) are part of the district to which their abutting natural upland area
are assigned, and shall be bounded by extension of the boundary lines of each
abutting natural up-land property. Two adjacent districts which extend onto
submerged lands shall be separated by extension of their above water common
boundary line.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
WATERFRONT PLAN PERMITS
§ 151.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No change in the use of the submerged lands or coastal area or structures
located thereon, and no alteration, change, construction, addition or expansion
of a structure on submerged land or in the coastal area shall be made until,
upon application to the Zoning Administrator of the village, a waterfront
permit is issued authorizing such change, alteration, addition or expansion.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 6, 2002, passed 5-9-2002; Am. Ord.
3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord. 6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.36 PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Application for a waterfront plan permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator of the village in a form approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   The application shall supply the following information:
      (1)   Size and location of the upland lot or lots, showing lot lines,
dimensions thereof and location of all applicable streets, alleys, easements
and other public ways;
      (2)   Size and locations of the structures existing and proposed on the
lot; and
      (3)   The types of uses for which the structures and submerged land and
upland land will be used and such other information as may be necessary for the
proper enforcement of these regulations.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 6, 2002, passed 5-9-2002; Am. Ord.
3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord. 6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.37 PERMIT PROCEDURE AND TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Within seven days of receipt of the application for a waterfront
development permit, the Zoning Administrator shall deliver the application to
the Planning Commission with a recommendation to approve or disapprove issuance
of the permit according to this chapter.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall hold a hearing on the application
within 30 days of receipt of the application from the Zoning Administrator,
giving public notice thereof at least ten days to parties in interest, and
recommend approval, denial or modification of the application. The application,
along with the recommendation of approval, denial or modification shall then be
delivered to the Village Council within seven days.
      (3)   At the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Council,
Council shall set forth the recommendation of the Planning Commission in
resolution form. The Village Council shall either adopt or deny the resolution,
or adopt some modification thereof. In the event the Village Council modifies
the recommendation of the Commission, an affirmative vote of at least three-
fourths of the full Village Council shall be required to enact such
modification. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of full Council shall
be required to adopt any recommendation of the Planning Commission. Any
recommendation that does not receive at least an affirmative majority vote of
full Council shall be deemed denied and rendered ineffective. No such
resolution shall be passed unless it has been read on 3 different days except
that such resolution may become emergency legislation if the Village Council
votes to dispense with this rule.
      (4)   If the Village Council approves the application with or without
modifications, it shall pass a resolution memorializing the issuance of the
application.
   (B)   Fees for waterfront permits shall be set from time to time by the
Council. Fees shall be paid at the time of application and shall be intended to
cover the cost of administration. The initial fee for waterfront permits shall
be $350, unless the permit is for a temporary dock, in which case the initial
fee shall be $100. Either fee may be amended from time to time by Village
Council and set forth in the schedule of fees of the Village of Marblehead.
   (C)   If the work described in any waterfront permit has not begun within
one year from the date of issuance thereof, such permit shall expire and be
null and void unless a continuance is requested and granted by the Planning
Commission. If the work described in any permit has not been substantially
completed within two years from the date of issuance thereof, such permit shall
expire and be null and void. Should a permit expire, further work as described
in the expired permit shall not proceed unless and until a new permit has been
obtained.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 6, 2002, passed 5-9-2002; Am. Ord.
14, 2004, passed 7-8-2004; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord. 6, 2007,
passed 5-10-2007)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission or their authorized agents in accordance with applicable sections of
the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Any permit issued upon false statement of fact which is material to
the issuance shall be immediately null and void, and the Zoning Administrator
may post the premises with a notice of revocation of such permit.
   (C)   Whenever a violation of the chapter occurs or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a complaint stating fully the cause and basis of
the alleged violation with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
shall record properly such complaint, investigate the allegation and take
action thereon, if necessary, as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   In case of violation of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the responsible person in writing, and if such person cannot be reached
thereof, cause notice of the violation to be conspicuously posted on the
premises.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter, Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission or their authorized agents may institute
appropriate legal remedy to abate such violation.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
USES AND VARIANCES
§ 151.50 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted in the R-1 Residential District, R-2 Residential
District and R-JI Residential District after obtaining a valid permit are as
follows: a dock or waterfront structure, which is used solely as a residential
accessory use to the main residential structure on the upland lot immediately
adjacent to the coastal area and is in no way used for any commercial purpose.
   (B)   Uses permitted in the B - Business District after obtaining a valid
permit are as follows:
      (1)   Uses permitted in the R-1, R-2 and R-JI Districts; and
      (2)   A dock or waterfront structure which is used solely as an accessory
use to the main use of the upland lot area immediately adjacent to the coastal
area.
   (C)   Uses permitted in the M - Manufacturing District, after obtaining a
valid permit are as follows:
      (1)   Uses permitted in the R-1, R-2, R-JI and Business Districts; and
      (2)   A dock or waterfront structure which is used solely as an accessory
use to the main use of the upland lot area adjacent to the coastal area and
which structure is in furtherance of the industrial use of the applicant's
premises.
   (D)   Uses permitted in the I - Institutional District, after obtaining a
valid permit are as follows:
      (1)   Uses permitted in the R-1, R-2, R-JI, Business and Manufacturing
Districts;
      (2)   A dock or waterfront structure which is used as an accessory use of
the main use of the upland lot area adjacent to the coastal area; and
      (3)   A dock or waterfront structure that promotes public access to the
coastal area for recreational purposes.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.51 PROCEDURE FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Application and fee.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be accompanied by a fee which
is established by Council.
      (2)   The initial fee for an application of variance is $100.
   (B)   Hearing of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall fix a reasonable time, not more than
45 days, for the hearing of an application for variance, giving public notice
thereof at least ten days to parties in interest, and decide the variance
within a reasonable time after it is submitted. At this hearing, any party may
appear in person or by attorney.
      (2)   Upon the day for hearing any application for variance, the Planning
Commission may adjourn the hearing in order to permit the obtaining of
additional information, to cause such further notice as it deems proper to be
served upon such other property owners as it decides may be substantially
interested in the application for variance. In the case of an adjourned
hearing, persons previously notified and persons already heard need not be
notified of the time of resumption of such hearing unless the Planning
Commission so decides.
   (C)   Decision of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall decide all applications for variances
within 30 days after the final hearing thereon.
      (2)   A copy of the Planning Commission's decision shall be transmitted
to all parties in interest and to Village Council. At the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Village Council, Council shall set forth the
recommendation of the Planning Commission in resolution form. The Village
Council shall either adopt or deny the resolution, or adopt some modification
thereof. In the event the Village Council modifies the recommendation of the
Commission, an affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the full Village
Council shall be required to enact such modification. The affirmative vote of
at least a majority of full Council shall be required to adopt any
recommendation of the Planning Commission. Any recommendation that does not
receive at least an affirmative majority vote of full Council shall be deemed
denied and rendered ineffective. No such resolution shall be passed unless it
has been read on three different days except that such resolution may become
emergency legislation if the Village Council votes to dispense with this rule.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   Variances may be authorized whereby reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness, shape, or exceptional topographic conditions, or other
extraordinary situations or conditions of the coastal area or the immediate
upland premises that the strict application of this chapter would result in
peculiar and exceptional difficulties or work hardship upon the owner thereof,
unless relief could be granted by a variance without substantial detriment to
the public good and without substantially impairing the intent of this chapter,
and providing further that;
      (2)   No variance shall be granted unless the Planning Commission finds
that the following conditions exist:
         (a)   The granting of the application is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of the substantial property right and not merely to
serve as a convenience to the applicant; and
         (b)   The authorizing of the variance does not increase the danger of
fire or imperil public safety or unreasonably diminish or impair the
established property values within the surrounding areas, or in any way impair
the aesthetic, natural, or historic use of land over the health, safety,
convenience or general welfare of the inhabitants of the community.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $500.
   (B)   Each day of violation may be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 20, 1991, passed 11-11-1991; Am. Ord. 3, 2006, passed 2-9-2006; Am. Ord.
6, 2007, passed 5-10-2007)
CHAPTER 152: TRAILERS, HOUSETRAILER PARKS AND CAMPS
Section
   
152.01   Connection to sanitary sewer system required
   
152.02   Location
   
152.03   Registration
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   All housetrailers and trailer camps or parks, as defined by the
statutes of the State of Ohio, shall comply with the sanitation and other
requirements prescribed by the State of Ohio.
   (B)   No housetrailer shall be occupied for habitation within the village or
as a residence within the village unless and until the same has been connected
to a sanitary sewerage system and proper connection has been made to the
village water system.
(Ord. 10, 1961, passed 11-13-1961; Am. Ord. 7, 1962, passed 9-10-1962)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.02 LOCATION.
   No housetrailer, housetrailers or housetrailer parks or camps as defined by
the statutes of the State of Ohio shall be located or placed between Main
Street and Lake Erie or within 250 feet of Main Street in the Village of
Marblehead, State of Ohio.
(Ord. 10, 1961, passed 11-13-1961; Am. Ord. 7, 1962, passed 9-10-1962)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.03 REGISTRATION.
   All housetrailers in the Village of Marblehead shall be registered with the
Fiscal Officer of the village before being placed on any property in the
village.
(Ord. 7, 1962, passed 9-10-1962)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined not to exceed $50.
   (B)   Each days violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 10, 1961, passed 11-13-1961; Am. Ord. 7, 1962, passed 9-10-1962)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Purpose, Jurisdiction and Definition of Terms
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Administration
   
153.004   Jurisdiction
   
153.005   Relation to other laws
   
153.006   Amendments
   
153.007   Separability
   
153.008   Definition of terms
Minor Subdivisions or Administrative Approvals
   
153.020   Purpose
   
153.021   Format
   
153.022   Approval
   
153.023   Signatures
   
153.024   Administrative approval form
Subdivision by Record Plat
   
153.040   Replats, vacations
   
153.041   Preapplication meeting suggested
   
153.042   Preapplication sketch and data
   
153.043   Preliminary plat
   
153.044   Application for plat approval
   
153.045   Plat questionnaire
   
153.046   Submission to State Highway Director
   
153.047   Application for approval
   
153.048   Preliminary plat form
   
153.049   Preliminary plat contents
   
153.050   Supplementary information
   
153.051   Preliminary plat checklist
   
153.052   Filing of the preliminary plat
   
153.053   Review and approval of preliminary plat
   
153.054   Approval period
   
153.055   Final plat required
   
153.056   Application for approval of final plat
   
153.057   Regulations governing drawing submitted
   
153.058   Final plat form
   
153.059   Final plat contents
   
153.060   Certifications of approval
   
153.061   Final plat checklist
   
153.062   Filing of the final plat
   
153.063   Review and approval of final plat
   
153.064   Transmittal of copies
Subdivision Design Standards
   
153.075   General statement
   
153.076   Conformity to development plans and zoning
   
153.077   Suitability of land
   
153.078   Street design
   
153.079   Street design standards for culs-de-sac
   
153.080   Right-of-way for all streets
   
153.081   Horizontal alignment
   
153.082   Vertical alignment
   
153.083   Intersection design standards
   
153.084   Special street types
   
153.085   Streets for commercial and industrial subdivision
   
153.086   Street vacation
   
153.087   Names of streets
   
153.088   Blocks
   
153.089   Lots
   
153.090   Easements
   
153.091   Storm drainage
   
153.092   Public sites, open space and natural features
   
153.093   Soil erosion requirements
Requirements for Construction of Improvements
   
153.105   General statement
   
153.106   Determination of required improvements
   
153.107   Construction procedures and materials
   
153.108   Construction drawing approval
   
153.109   Inspection
   
153.110   Fees and preconstruction notification
   
153.111   Street requirements
   
153.112   Street construction standards and specifications
   
153.113   Street vertical standards and specifications
   
153.114   Street horizontal standards and specifications
   
153.115   Turn-around and intersection standards and specifications
   
153.116   Public street construction procedures and materials
   
153.117   Curb and gutter requirements
   
153.118   Curb and gutter standards and specifications
   
153.119   Sidewalk requirements
   
153.120   Sidewalk standards and specifications
   
153.121   Street trees
   
153.122   Water supply requirements
   
153.123   Water supply standards and specifications
   
153.124   Sanitary sewer and facilities requirements
   
153.125   Sanitary sewer and facilities standards and requirements
   
153.126   Drainage and storm sewer requirements
   
153.127   Drainage and storm sewer standards and specifications
   
153.128   Monuments
   
153.129   Required data
   
153.130   Survey data
   
153.131   Plans and profiles
   
153.132   Typical sections
   
153.133   Topographic map
   
153.134   Improvement and cost estimate information
   
153.135   Specifications
   
153.136   Guarantee for installation of improvements
   
153.137   Types of performance guarantees
   
153.138   Progressive installation
   
153.139   Acceptance of streets and other improvements for use and maintenance
by public
Floodplain Regulations
   
153.150   Purpose and intent
   
153.151   Floodplain evaluation
   
153.152   Floodplain requirements
   
153.153   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Revisions and Enforcement
   
153.185   Recording of plat
   
153.186   Revision of plat after approval
   
153.187   Sale of land within subdivision
   
153.188   Variances
   
153.189   Appeal
   
153.190   Fees
Enactment and Adoption
   
153.205   Effective date
   
153.206   Adoption, recording
 
   
153.999   Penalty
PURPOSE, JURISDICTION AND DEFINITION OF TERMS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
Subdivision Regulations of the Village of Marblehead and shall hereinafter be
referred to as these regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is to regulate and control the
subdivision of land within the Village of Marblehead.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to:
      (1)   Promote the proper arrangement of streets and lots, safe and
convenient vehicular traffic and pedestrian circulation and adequate access for
service and emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Plan for the provision of adequate and convenient recreational and
open space areas, school sites and other public facilities;
      (3)   Ensure the adequate provision of water, drainage, and sanitary
sewer facilities and other health requirements;
      (4)   Provide the orderly development of land to obtain an overall
harmonious and stable community environment;
      (5)   Coordinate land development in accordance with the Marblehead
Zoning Chapter, the Major Thoroughfare Plan, the Land Use Plan, and other
regulations of the Village of Marblehead; and
      (6)   Manage the natural resource base for present and future use on a
sustained basis.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   These regulations shall be administered by the Marblehead Planning
Commission as authorized by the Ohio R.C. Chapter 711.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations shall be applicable to all subdivisions of land
within the Village of Marblehead.
   (B)   The Marblehead Planning Commission shall have the power of final
approval of all plats within its area of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.005 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
State of Ohio, resolutions by the county, or any and all rules and regulations
promulgated by authority of such law or resolution relating to the purpose and
scope of these regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are
at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the highest standard shall govern. These regulations shall be interpreted as
minimum requirements.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.006 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended after public hearings and other
requirements as required by the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.007 SEPARABILITY.
   If, for any reason, any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or other part
of these regulations should be decided by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, such judgment shall not affect the validity of these regulations as
a whole, or any part thereof, other than that part so held to be invalid.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.008 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as the individual.
      (2)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement; the word MAY is a
permissive requirement; and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
      (3)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED, OR
ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED.
      (4)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT or PARCEL.
      (5)   The PRESENT TENSE includes the FUTURE TENSE; the SINGULAR NUMBER
includes the PLURAL NUMBER and vice versa.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL. A splitting of land for property owners not
contemplating an extensive subdivision of land. This procedure is limited to
the first four lots split from the original parcel. The original parcel is
defined as that land purchased by the present owner. All lots must front an
existing approved street or road and be five acres or less in size. Lots
greater than five acres in size that front on an approved street or road are
not subject to these subdivision regulations.
      APPROVED STREET OR ROAD. A right-of-way designed and approved for
purposes of providing vehicular access and meeting the requirements of §§
153.075 et seq. of these regulations, where appropriate.
      BLOCK. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and
railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream, or between
any of the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
      COASTAL FLOODPLAIN. The coastal lake areas which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood defined as a high Lake Erie water level
elevation. The floodplain is delineated on the Federal Flood Insurance Maps.
      COMMISSION. The Marblehead Planning Commission in the County of Ottawa,
State of Ohio.
      COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
      CROSSWALK. A public right-of-way which cuts across a block in order to
provide pedestrian access to adjacent streets or properties.
      CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels under a street or driveway.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land.
         (a)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the
total land area to be developed.
         (b)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when
the acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
      DEVELOPER. Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under the regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for
himself, herself or for another.
      DWELLING UNIT. Space within a building comprising living, dining,
sleeping room or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for
cooking, bathing and toilet facilities, all used by one family and its
household employees.
      EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and
for a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
      ESCROW ACCOUNT. An agreement by a subdivider or developer with the
village for the amount of the estimated construction cost, plus 10%,
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the subdivider's agreement.
      ENGINEER. Any person registered to practice professional engineering by
the State Board of Registration as specified in Ohio R.C. § 4733.14.
      FLOODPLAIN. The area of land adjoining a water body which is expected to
be flooded as a result of a combination of severe weather and surface
conditions. (See REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN). The area of the FLOODPLAIN is
delineated on the Federal Flood Insurance Maps.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse of those portions of the
adjoining floodplains which are required to convey the regional flood, and
delineated on the Federal Flood Insurance Maps.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area within the regulatory floodplain that is
outside the floodway and acts as a backwater storage area, as delineated on the
Federal Flood Insurance Maps.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and
drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related matters
normally associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
      LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum lot size and
zoning requirements and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are
herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street and
may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record; or
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
      LOT AREA. The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of the
right-of-way of any public or private street and exclusive of easements and
canals, waterways and land under 574 feet U.S.G.S.
      LOT DEPTH. A mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line, measured in a general direction parallel with its side lot
lines. Unless otherwise specified, length shall be measured from the street
right-of-way line. Lot length and LOT DEPTH have the same meaning.
      LOT FRONTAGE. Distance between lot lines measured from the point where
one lot line intersects the principle right-of-way for that lot directly to the
point where the other lot line intersects the principle right-of-way for that
lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the county recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT TYPES. Terminology used in these regulations with reference to corner
lots, interior lots and through lots is as follows:
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
         (b)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with frontage on only one street.
         (c)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a
corner lot.
         (d)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/962db5044815628fcdb773283cf101eba0bacfbe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1994.jpg]
 
      LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the required building setback line
measured at right angles to its depth. The width of lots fronting on a cul-de-
sac shall be the chord distance between side lot lines for the curve coinciding
with the required building setback.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan made and adopted by
Village Council indicating the general location recommended for the main
thoroughfare, primary and secondary streets within the Village of Marblehead.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of a parcel of land that does not require a
plat to be approved by the Commission according to Ohio R.C. § 711.131. Also
known as administrative approval.
      MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish
definitively all lines of a plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners,
boundary line corners and points of change in street alignment.
      OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a
building. The area may include, along with the natural environment features,
swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities that the
Commission deems permissive. Streets, structures for habitation and the like
shall not be included.
      ORIGINAL PARCEL. The contiguous land under the same ownership at the time
the parcel or parcels were acquired.
      OUTLOT. Property shown on the subdivision plat and which is not part of
the proposed plat.
      PARCEL. Any piece of land described by a current deed.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. A certificate or evidence of debt which protects
against loss due to inability or refusal of an individual or contractor to
perform his or her contract.
      PLAT. A map or drawing showing the plan of the subdivision of a tract or
parcel of land.
         (a)   FINAL PLAT. The map or set of maps which presents all data
required by these regulations and bears substantial conformance to the
preliminary plat. A FINAL PLAT submittal includes all improvement and drainage
plans required for the subdivision. When approved, the plat is signed by the
Commission and other appropriate officials or agencies and is recorded by the
county recorder as a permanent record.
         (b)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or set of maps which presents the
proposed subdivision design, along with all of the information required in
these regulations which enables the Commission to accurately review the
proposal. Approval of the PRELIMINARY PLAT entitles the subdivider to prepare a
final plat for construction and recording of the subdivision.
      PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch,
easement, expressway, highway, parkway, right-of-way, road sidewalk, street,
subway, tunnel, viaduct, land, walk or other ways in which the general public
or a public entity has a right or which are dedicated thus, whether improved or
not.
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood having an average frequency of occurrence on the
order of once in 100 years, although the flood may occur in any year and as
delineated on the Federal Flood Insurance Maps.
      REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN. A water body adjoining areas which have been or
hereafter may be covered by the regional flood as delineated on the Federal
Flood Insurance Maps.
      REPLAT. A subdivision or plat, the site of which has been previously
platted or subdivided into lots or parcels and the dimensions of these lots or
parcels are now proposed to be changed.
      RESERVE AREA. An area of land held by the developer and intended to be
developed at a later date.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way.
In addition, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks,
lighting and drainage facilities, and may also include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges. Public streets and roads are RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a highway right-of-way, including shoulders, for
vehicular use.
      SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A public or community sewerage collection system
that conveys sewage to a central sewage treatment plant approved by Ohio EPA
and the Ottawa County Sanitary Engineer.
      SETBACK LINE. A line established by these regulations generally parallel
to and measured from the lot line, defining the area in which no buildings or
structures may be located above ground in the front yard.
      SEWAGE SYSTEMS, INDIVIDUAL, ON-SITE. A sewage disposal or treatment
system or part thereof, which receives sewage and utilizes soil absorption or
soil percolation to dissipate sewage effluent into the soil as approved by the
Ottawa County Board of Health or Ohio EPA.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, developer, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself, herself or for another.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels, sites or
lots, any one of which is less than five acres, for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, provided, however, that the
division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres each not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining landowners where such sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites shall be exempted; or
         (b)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures involving the division or allocation of
land for the opening, widening or extension of any street or streets except
private streets serving industrial structures; the division or allocation of
land as open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders, or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm
drainage or other public facilities.
      SURVEYOR. Any person registered to practice surveying by the State Board
of Registration as specified in Ohio R. C. § 4733.
      THOROUGHFARE, ROUTE, STREET or ROAD.
         (a)   The full width between the edges of the right-of-way bounding
every public way with a part thereof to be used for vehicular traffic and
designed as follows:
            1.   ARTERIAL ROUTE. A street or road providing for traffic
movement between collector streets and routes.
            2.   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for
through traffic with all crossroads separated in grade and with controlled
access and exit.
            3.   LOCAL COLLECTOR STREETS. A street or road providing for
traffic movement between arterial streets or routes and residential streets.
LOCAL COLLECTORS provide for the internal traffic movement within residential
subdivisions.
            4.   PRIMARY ROUTE. A highway for through traffic movement between
areas in the county, across the county and to and from expressways, and on
which traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe movement of
through traffic.
            5.   RESIDENTIAL STREETS. A street or road primarily providing
access to abutting property.
            6.   SECONDARY ROUTE. A highway for through traffic usually on a
continuous route. Provides for through traffic movement primarily between areas
in the county and to and from expressways and primary routes. SECONDARY ROUTES
connect all all important industrial, business and residential areas in the
county.
            7.   SPECIAL STREETS.
               a.   ALLEY. A minor street used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
               b.   CUL-DE-SAC. A street of relatively short length with one
end open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
               c.   DEAD-END STREETS. A street temporarily having only one
outlet for vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the
future.
               d.   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A street parallel and adjacent to
an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting properties and
protection from arterial or collector streets.
         (b)   All new thoroughfares, routes, street, or roads shall connect to
an existing street within the Village of Marblehead.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulation
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship or practical difficulty.
      VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by
dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use
to other nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services
within the village in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Marblehead.
      WATER, PRIVATE SUPPLY. A water system for the provision of water for
human consumption for a dwelling unit.
      WATER, PUBLIC SUPPLY. A water system serving water for human consumption
that consists of more than 15 service connections or serves an average of more
than 25 individuals daily for more than 60 days out of the year.
      YARD. A required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure
or portion of a structure above the general ground level of the graded lot
upward, provided accessories, ornaments and furniture may be permitted in any
yard, subject to height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of
visibility.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of
a lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS OR ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVALS
§ 153.020 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A proposed subdivision of land is subject to these regulations, where
such division is along an existing street, does not involve the opening,
widening or extension of any street or road, and which involves no more than
five lots (four lots and the original parcel remaining) after the original
tract has been completely subdivided.
   (B)   Such a subdivision may be submitted to the Commission for approval
without the requirement of a record plat.
   (C)   If the Board of Public Affairs and the Commission are satisfied that
such proposed subdivision of land is not contrary to applicable platting,
subdivision or zoning regulations, it shall, within seven working days after
submission, approve such proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.021 FORMAT.
   (A)   The owner of such land to be subdivided without a record plat shall
submit an official request in triplicate upon such forms as prescribed by the
Commission.
   (B)   The application shall be filed with the Marblehead Planning Commission
at its regularly scheduled meeting. Such application shall be accompanied by
sufficiently accurate drawings of the entire parcel and a legal description of
the proposed parcel to be transferred including any previously subdivided lots
approved for recording or recorded by the owner.
   (C)   Existing buildings shall be shown on the drawings.
   (D)   A fee, as determined by the Commission, shall accompany the
application.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.022 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Commission upon receipt of an acceptable
application shall consider such application filed.
   (B)   Within seven working days of the filing, the Commission shall approve
or disapprove the subdivision (administrative approval). If approved, the
Chairperson or his or her designee shall sign the application.
   (C)   Approval shall be made only if the Marblehead Zoning and Subdivision
Chapter requirements are met.
   (D)   Disapproval and the reasons therefore shall be made on the records of
the Commission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.023 SIGNATURES.
   Upon any approval of subdivision under these provisions, the Chairperson or
his or her designee shall stamp in such manner as to clearly indicate its
approval and affix the signature of the agent responsible on conveyance of the
parcel or parcels.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.024 ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL FORM.
Application # ___________________
Application for Administrative Approval
(Subdivisions of four lots or less)
Regulated by the Ohio R.C. 711.131
Note: Three copies of this application complete with the information required below
must be filed with the Marblehead Planning Commission. The applications shall be
filed with the Marblehead Planning Commission at its regularly scheduled meeting and
they will be assigned a file number and then forwarded to the Board of Public
Affairs for their approval. Separate application shall be made for each lot
subdivided. One copy of the application, together with the action taken by the
Marblehead Planning Commission will be returned to the applicant or his or her
agent.
   Applications will not be accepted by the Marblehead Planning Commission unless
all information is complete and provided in triplicate. A fee, as determined by the
Council, shall accompany the application.
Name of Applicant or Agent__________________________ Telephone_____________________
Address___________________________________ City_________________________________
Name of Grantor___________________________________ Telephone_____________________
Address___________________________________ City_________________________________
Name of Grantee____________________________________
Address___________________________________ City_________________________________
Section___________________________ Size of Parcel__________________________________
1.   Description: Attach separate sheet with legal description per copy.
2.   Sketch: A sketch shall be attached to each copy showing:
      (a)   Proposed division of land;
      (b)   Owners of parcel and adjoining parcels;
      (c)   Dimension and location of proposed lot lines;
      (d)   Existing structures, easements, public facilities, setbacks and
direction of drainage; and
      (e)   The front, side and rear yard setbacks.
Important: Administrative approval is provided for convenience. It does not, in any
way relieve the applicant of meeting all Marblehead Subdivision Regulation
Requirements.
3.   Existing Structure      Yes_____________________ No______________________
4.   Address Assigned to Structure:_________________________________________________
5.   Public Water   Yes_______No_______   Public Sewer   Yes________No__________
Action by Board of Public Affairs
Date Received__________________________ Date Reviewed___________________________
Action
_________________________________________
Board of Public Affairs or Designee
Comments:___________________________________________________________________
Action by Planning Commission
Date Received_________________________Date Reviewed_____________________________
Action
Zoning_________ Minimum Lot Width _______________Minimum Lot Area______________
Subject to Flood________________________ Other Comments__________________________
__________________________________________
Planning Commission Designee
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
SUBDIVISION BY RECORD PLAT
§ 153.040 REPLATS, VACATIONS.
   (A)   Resubdivisions. A subdivider proposing the resubdivision of a plat
previously recorded in the office of the county recorder shall follow the same
procedure as for a new plat, except that a preliminary map may not be necessary
if changes in street alignment or like changes are not included in the
proposal.
   (B)   Vacations/abandonments.
      (1)   Proposals of subdivision vacation/abandonments shall meet the
requirements of Ohio R.C. § 711.17.
      (2)   Plats of street openings, widenings and extensions; open spaces for
common use by owners, occupants or leaseholders; and easements for the
extension and maintenance of public sewer, stormwater drainage or other public
utility shall have the same plat requirements as stated above.
      (3)   Provision for the subdivision of land for use by utility companies
shall be considered on the basis of the special conditions in each case.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.041 PREAPPLICATION MEETING SUGGESTED.
   (A)   Purpose and intent of preapplication meeting.
      (1)   The subdivider should meet with the Commission and appropriate
agencies prior to the submission of the preliminary plat.
      (2)   The purpose of this meeting is to discuss, early and informally,
the purpose and effect of these regulations and the criteria and standards
contained herein.
      (3)   The meeting is designed to familiarize the developer with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Major Thoroughfare Plan, other relevant plans,
applicable zoning standards, and present and proposed drainage, sewerage and
water systems for the Village of Marblehead.
   (B)   Preapplication meeting.
      (1)   If, during the consultation or at a later date, it is determined
that the proposed subdivision is feasible and acceptable from these
standpoints, the preparation of a preliminary plat for submission to the
Commission for formal consideration can occur.
      (2)   No comments or statements made during the consultation shall be
construed as a final acceptance of the preliminary plat until the formal
approval of the Commission is granted.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.042 PREAPPLICATION SKETCH AND DATA.
   (A)   The subdivider should submit to the Commission and appropriate
agencies a sketch plan.
   (B)   The following information shall be discussed at the preapplication
conference:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision in relation to existing community
facilities, thoroughfares, manufacturing establishments, residential
developments, and existing natural and manmade features (such as soil types,
vegetation, floodprone areas and utilities in neighboring areas);
      (2)   The layout and acreage of streets and any nonresidential sites,
such as commercial, industrial, educational, or recreational uses within the
proposed subdivision;
      (3)   (a)   The proposed location of utilities in the subdivision, if
available, or the locations of the nearest sources of water and public
facilities for the disposal of sewage and stormwater.
         (b)   In areas where utilities are not available, the proposed method
of providing these facilities shall be stated and outlined;
      (4)   The title and scale of the subdivision, a north arrow, and the
date; and
      (5)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the owner(s);
developer(s); and technician(s) preparing the plan.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.043 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   After approval of the plan in the preapplication state, the subdivider shall
submit ten copies of the preliminary plat along with the reproducible copy of
the proposed subdivision which shall conform to all requirements established in
§§
153.040 et seq. of these regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.044 APPLICATION FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
Application for Plat Approval
(For Planning Commission Use Only)
Date Received________________________ Application #_____________________________
Date Application accepted for Commission Action___________________________________
Placed on Agenda for__________________________________________________________
Application Is Hereby Made to the Marblehead Planning Commission
for Approval of the Plat of the below Described Subdivision:
Name of Subdivision___________________________________________________________
Section:_______________________________ Lot:__________________________________
Preliminary____________________________ Final_________________________________
Name of Principal Owners:_____________________________________________________
Address__________________________________ Phone ____________________________
Name of Surveyor:___________________________________________________________
Address:_________________________________ Phone ____________________________
Name of Engineer: __________________________________________________________
Address:_________________________________ Phone ___________________________
Name of Legal Representative (If Any):_________________________________________
Address:________________________________ Phone ____________________________
   Accompanying this application is one reproducible copy of the proposed
preliminary/final plat and ten prints of the same. It is further understood by the
applicant that the application for preliminary/final plat approval must meet the
requirements of the Marblehead Subdivision Regulations and consideration of the
application is contingent upon meeting these requirements. The application shall
be placed on the Commission's agenda for the next appropriate meeting. Submission
shall occur by the second Tuesday of each month.
   Ohio law mandates approval or disapproval within thirty days. Do you wish to
waive that thirty day timeframe? Yes_________ No _________
If yes, identify the length of extension requested? ____________ The maximum
extension allowed is twelve months after which the plat is disapproved.
Signature of Owner/Agent_______________________________ Date
______________________
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.045 PLAT QUESTIONNAIRE.
Application #__________________
Plat Questionnaire
Name of
Subdivision______________________________________________________________
Name of Owner_____________________________ Phone:______________________________
Address________________________________________________________________________
The following specific questions relating to this subdivision should be
answered and this form included with the presentation of the plat.
Total number of acres in proposed subdivision________ Total number of lots
anticipated________
Will new streets be created?________ How wide? ________Will any additional
right-of-way be dedicated along existing streets? ________ How wide? ________
Name of Road ________ The subdivision will be served by (check one): Private
Water Systems________ Public Water Supply________ Other ________(Specify)
___________________
The sanitary needs will be served by (check one): Septic Tanks________ Public
Sanitary Sewerage System ________ Other________
(Specify)_____________________________________________
What type of storm drainage will be used? ________ Is any land other than
streets to be dedicated for public use?________ Describe:
_________________________________________________________
Will any natural drainage course be affected by the subdivision?________
Describe______________________________ Is the property subject to the one
hundred year flood?__________ If yes, identify the flood zone:
__________________________________________
State the base flood elevation:________________ What is the present use of the
land?_____________
What is zoning classification?_____________________ Any proposed changes in
zoning classification?___________________ Questionnaire prepared
by_______________________________
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.046 SUBMISSION TO STATE HIGHWAY DIRECTOR.
   Before any plat is approved affecting any land within 300 feet of the
centerline of a proposed new state highway or a state highway for which changes
are proposed as described in the certification to local officials by the ODOT
Director of any land within a radius of 500 feet from the point of intersection
of the centerline with any public road or highway, the Commission shall give
notice by registered or certified mail to the ODOT Director. The Commission
shall not approve the plat for a maximum of 120 days from the date the notice
is received by the ODOT Director. If the ODOT Director notifies the Commission
that he or she shall proceed to acquire the land needed, the Commission shall
refuse to approve the plat. If the ODOT Director notifies the Commission that
acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon the expiration
of the 120 day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the ODOT Director
and the property owner, the Commission shall, if the plat is in conformance
with all provisions of these regulations, approve the plat.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.047 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   A completed application and questionnaire on forms provided by the
Commission, together with the reproducible copy and 10 copies of the
preliminary plat showing the supplementary information specified in §§
153.048 through
153.051, inclusive, shall be submitted to the Commission by the second Tuesday
of any month along with a fee as established by the Commission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.048 PRELIMINARY PLAT FORM.
   The preliminary plat shall be drawn on one or more sheets not less than 12
inches by 18 inches in size at a preferred scale of one inch equals 50 feet.
Another scale, though not preferred, may be used. No ditto marks shall be used.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.049 PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision which shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision in the Village of Marblehead;
   (B)   Location by section, village, township, county and state;
   (C)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the owner(s); subdivider
(s); and the engineer(s)/surveyor(s) who prepared the plat; and appropriate
registration numbers and seals;
   (D)   Date of survey, scale of the plat, north point;
   (E)   A vicinity map at a preferred scale of one inch to 400 feet or smaller
shall be provided which indicates the relationship of the subdivision to its
surroundings. This map shall display all existing subdivisions, roads, tract
lines and the nearest existing thoroughfares whenever possible;
   (F)   Boundaries of the subdivision; amount of acreage in lots, streets,
open spaces and the total acreage shall be shown;
   (G)   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land;
   (H)   Locations, widths, centerlines and names of all existing and/or
platted streets, public or private; railroad and utility rights-of-way,
easements, permanent buildings, and corporation and township lines; location of
wooded areas and other significant topographic and natural features within and
adjacent to the plat;
   (I)   Zoning classification of the tract and a description of proposed
zoning changes, if any;
   (J)   Existing contours at an interval of:
      (1)   One foot where average slopes do not exceed 5%;
      (2)   Two feet where average slopes exceed 5% but do not exceed 15%; and
      (3)   Five feet where average slopes exceed 15%.
   (K)   Location of existing sewers, drainage tile, water mains, culverts or
other underground utilities within the tract or adjacent thereto, with pipe
sizes, depth and grade indicated; also location of existing and proposed
easements. Separate sheets may be used when appropriate;
   (L)   Location, names and dimensions of existing and proposed streets;
alleys; crosswalks; and other easements. Names shall not duplicate or closely
approximate any existing street name in Danbury Township and the Village of
Marblehead;
   (M) All building setback lines with dimensions shown graphically along all
streets;
   (N)   Location and dimensions of all proposed utility and sewers (including
easements), showing their connections with existing systems;
   (O)   If no central water and/or sewage system exists, the subdivider shall
state the type of system he or she proposes to use. A proposal of on-lot sewage
disposal shall require the soil conditions encountered in the area of the
proposed subdivision to be identified. A central sewage treatment plant and/or
central water system shall be constructed when deemed necessary by the
appropriate public agency. The connection to available central facilities shall
be mandatory;
   (P)   Soils information including soil types, location and engineering
properties related to intended uses should be identified on the plat for
existing soils or proposed fill sources. In addition, soil capabilities and
limitations for the intended land use shall appear. This information can be
obtained at no charge from the Ottawa County Soil and Water Conservation
District;
   (Q)   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of each lot;
   (R)   Parcels of land in acres to be reserved for public use or to be
reserved by covenant for residents of the subdivision;
   (S)   High water levels in vicinities of lakes, rivers and other natural
bodies of water; and
   (T)   Certificate of preliminary approval by the Commission shall be located
on the plat.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.050 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the requirements
in §
153.049:
   (A)   Statement of proposed use of lots, giving type (single, duplex, and
the like) and number of dwelling units by type along with any proposed business
or industry use;
   (B)   Location and approximate dimensions of all existing buildings;
   (C)   For commercial and industrial development, the locations, dimensions,
and approximate grade of proposed parking and loading areas; alleys; pedestrian
walkways; streets; and the points of vehicular ingress and egress to the
development; and
   (D)   Description of available proposed covenants and restrictions.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.051 PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECKLIST.
 
Preliminary Plat Checklist
Does Does Not
              1.    General
                 (a)    Transparency and ten prints of plat submitted.
                 (b)    Survey done by registered surveyor.
                 (c)    Engineering done by registered engineer.
 
Preliminary Plat Checklist
Preliminary Plat Checklist
     (d)    Adequate preliminary drawings of improvements, or equally adequate
  statements.
     (e)    Certificate of preliminary approval by the Planning Commission.
     (f)    Vicinity sketched at one inch equals 400 feet or smaller.
     (g)    Drawn on transparency at one inch equals 50 feet or other scale.
     (h)    Size of sheets larger than 12 inches x 18 inches.
     (i)    No ditto marks (") used.
  2.    Plat Detail
     (a)    Name of subdivision (does not duplicate another subdivision in Danbury
  Township and the Village of Marblehead.)
     (b)    Location by section, village, township, county and state.
     (c)    Name and address of owner and technician preparing plan.
     (d)    Scale of plan.
     (e)    Date.
     (f)    North point.
     (g)    Location, width, centerline and names of existing and planned streets
  and public ways.
     (h)    Railroad and utility r/w and easements.
     (i)    Parks and open spaces.
     (j)    Permanent buildings.
     (k)    Section and corporation boundaries within tract.
     (l)    Sewer, water lines, culverts, and utilities shown with sizes, depths,
  grades and existing easements therefor. Proposed improvements indicated on
  separate sheets if needed.
     (m)    Names of adjacent subdivisions or owners of adjoining parcels.
     (n)    Zoning classification and proposed changes shown.
     (o)    Existing contours as specified in §
  153.049(J).
     (p)    Natural and manmade physical features shown.
     (q)    High water levels shown where applicable.
 
Preliminary Plat Checklist
Preliminary Plat Checklist
     (r)    Boundary of plat indicated.
     (s)    Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots.
     (t)    Dedication or reservation of land indicated.
     (u)    Building setback lines shown and located.
     (v)    Proposed deed restriction or statement to contrary.
     (w)    Flood hazard elevation for the area to be subdivided.
     (x)    Soil information as specified in §
  153.049(P).
Comments
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.052 FILING OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be considered officially filed on the day
it is received by the Commission and shall be so dated.
   (B)   The Commission shall notify the subdivider of any additional data
required and Commission action may be delayed until the data is received.
   (C)   Filing shall be by the second Tuesday of any month.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.053 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Commission shall forward copies of the preliminary plat to the
village engineer, Board of Public Affairs, the county sanitary engineer, and
other such officials and agencies as may be necessary for the purpose of study
and recommendation.
   (B)   The subdivider, or his or her agent, may be required to meet with
certain agencies and the Commission to discuss pertinent problems. All
corrections or clarifications agreed upon during such meetings shall be
incorporated either in the preliminary plat drawing or in subsequent plans as
approved by the Commission.
   (C)   After receipt of reports from such officials and agencies, the
Commission, at its regular meeting, shall determine whether the preliminary
plat shall be approved, approved with deficiencies and conditions noted or
disapproved. The subdivider shall be notified in writing of the action of the
Commission. If a plat is disapproved, the reasons for such disapproval shall be
stated in writing. Furthermore, any form of approval of a preliminary plat
shall be contingent upon compliance with all other applicable regulations of
the village and/or the county.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.054 APPROVAL PERIOD.
   (A)   The approval or approval with noted deficiencies and comments of the
preliminary plat shall be effective for a maximum period of 12 months from the
date of Commission action and shall guarantee that the terms under which the
approval was granted will not be affected by changes to these regulations.
   (B)   If a change of zoning is necessary for the subdivision to comply with
the Marblehead Zoning Chapter, this process must be completed in advance of
filing the final plat.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.055 FINAL PLAT REQUIRED.
   The subdivider, having received the approval of the preliminary plat and
obtained the necessary signature from the Commission, shall submit the final
plat of the subdivision along with the required drawings and specifications of
improvements. The final plat shall incorporate all changes in the preliminary
plat as required by the Commission. Otherwise, it shall conform to the
preliminary plat; and it shall constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time. The final plat shall be prepared by a qualified registered surveyor and
the construction improvements by a qualified registered engineer.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.056 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   A completed application and questionnaire, on forms provided by the
Commission, together with the reproducible copy and ten copies of the plat and
the supplementary information specified hereinafter, shall be submitted to the
Commission.
   (B)   A fee, as determined by the Commission shall accompany the submission.
   (C)   The deadline for submission is the second Tuesday of any month for
review at that month's meeting.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.057 REGULATIONS GOVERNING DRAWING SUBMITTED.
   (A)   The final plat drawings shall be prepared by a registered surveyor and
a set of construction and utility plans prepared by a registered engineer.
   (B)   The plans shall be submitted to the responsible officials and agencies
as outlined in §§
153.105 et seq. of these regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.058 FINAL PLAT FORM.
   (A)   The final plat shall be legibly prepared in waterproof ink on a
permanent, translucent material.
   (B)   It shall be drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch and
a graphic scale shall be shown on the plat.
   (C)   The plat shall be shown on one or more sheets at 25 inches by 29
inches in size, but not larger than 24 inches by 36 inches with one-half inch
border and one and one-half inches binding left edge.
   (D)   If more than one sheet is needed, each sheet shall be numbered and the
relation of one sheet to another clearly shown.
   (E)   Lettering shall be 0.10 inch in height or larger with a pen width of
0.013 or larger.
   (F)   No ditto marks or abbreviations shall be used on the plat.
   (G)   The county recorder's requirements for recording purposes shall be
met.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.059 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   The final plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of the subdivision, location by section, village, township,
county and state;
   (B)   Metes and bounds description of the entire parcel included in the
plat;
   (C)   Date, north point and acreage;
   (D)   Name and address of the subdivider, owner, the professional engineer
who prepared the improvement plans and the registered surveyor who prepared the
plat and their appropriate registration numbers and seals;
   (E)   Primary control points and descriptions or ties to such, shall be
shown on the plat;
   (F)   All plat boundaries, proposed lot lines and bearings should reflect
actual or calculated values. All dimensions shown shall be referenced by arrow
marks to their beginning and ending points;
   (G)   Center lines of streets and rights-of-way of street, alleys, easements
with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles and radii, arcs and
central angles of all curves. Linear dimensions shall be expressed by bearings
and distances in feet and hundredths thereof. All dimensions, both linear and
angular, are to be determined by an accurate control survey in the field which
must balance and close within the limit of one in 10,000;
   (H)   Names of existing and proposed streets or other rights-of-way. (Names
shall not duplicate or closely approximate other street names in Danbury
Township and the Village of Marblehead);
   (I)   Location, width, purpose and recorded reference of all easements
within or serving the proposed subdivision;
   (J)   Number to identify each lot, site or block. All lots and blocks shall
be numbered progressively;
   (K)   Dedication of streets, reserved areas, or other applicable areas
within the boundaries of the plat;
   (L)   Excepted parcels or out lots which shall be marked "Not Included in
Plat;"
   (M)    Minimum building setback lines on all lots and other sites displayed
graphically with dimensions from street lines. For large numbers of lots, a
typical lot may be shown;
   (N)   Accurate location and description of all monuments. If in place, a
letter so stating their placement shall be submitted;
   (O)   Previous lots or blocks and their numbers indicated by relatively
thinner lines or other visible method (in the case of a replat);
   (P)   A copy of any available restrictive covenants in form for recording
shall be presented with the final plat to the Commission;
   (Q)   One hundred year flood boundaries shall be shown on the plat as well
as flood hazard elevation for the area being subdivided; and
   (R)   Whether or not a preliminary plat has been submitted, the requirements
of §
153.049(P) shall be submitted on the final plat.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.060 CERTIFICATIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The following certifications shall be placed on the final plat and are
mandatory for the final approval and recording of the plat.
   (A)   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents an accurate survey and that all monuments shown thereon actually
exist and that their location is shown correctly and by a registered engineer
that all improvements plans are accurate.
   (B)   Notarized certification of ownership of the land being platted and
acknowledgement and adoption of the plat and dedication of streets and open
spaces.
   (C)   Certification of approval by the County Board of Health (Health
Commissioner) where sewer and/or public water is not available.
   (D)   Certification of approval by the Marblehead Planning Commission.
   (E)   Certificate for acceptance, by the Village of Marblehead, of any
street or highway whose dedication has been requested.
   (F)   Certification of approval by the auditor of Ottawa County stating that
all taxes and assessments on the land in the subdivision have been paid and the
auditor's certificate of transfer.
   (G)   Certificate of county recorder.
   (H)   Certificate of approval by the village engineer.
   (I)   Certificate of approval by the sanitary engineer.
   (J)   Certificate of approval by the Board of Public Affairs.
   (K)   Certification of the owner's dedication of installed sewer mains to
the Ottawa County Commissioners to read as follows:
___________, as owner, hereby dedicates the sewer mains within the platted area
to the Board of County Commissioners of Ottawa County, Ohio, exclusively to the
public use this_____day of______, 20_______.
   (L)   Certification of the owner's dedication of installed water mains to
the Village of Marblehead to read as follows:
__________, as owner, hereby dedicates the water mains within the platted area
to the Village of Marblehead, Ottawa County, Ohio, exclusively to the public
use this _______day of_______, 20________.
   (M) Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or dedications as may
be required by the Commission in the administration of the regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.061 FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST.
Final Plat Checklist
Final Plat Checklist
Does Does
     Not
          1.    General
             (a)    Submitted within 12 months of approval of preliminary plat.
             (b)    Improvements completed or assurance given as required.
             (c)    Application form properly completed.
             (d)    Plat prepared in waterproof ink on tracing cloth or other material of
          equal permanence at a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet.
             (e)    Sheets are at least 25 inches by 29 inches in size but not larger than 24
          inches by 36 inches with one-half inch border and one and one-half inches left
          binding edge with lettering size no smaller than 0.10 inch with pen width of at
          least 0.013.
             (f)    Improvement plans meeting requirements of responsible official.
          2.    Plat Detail
             (a)    Name of subdivision.
             (b)    Locational description.
             (c)    Owner, subdivider, surveyor, and engineer names and addresses.
             (d)    Date and scale of plan including graphic scale.
             (e)    North point.
             (f)    Adequate survey data.
             (g)    Names of adjoining owners or subdivisions.
             (h)    Name of streets and right-of-way.
             (i)    Location, purpose and recorded reference of all easements within or
          serving the proposed subdivision.
             (j)    Lot and block numbers.
 
Final Plat Checklist
Final Plat Checklist
     (k)    Dedication of lots and purpose.
     (l)    Excepted parcels or out lots so marked, "Not Included in This Plat."
     (m)    Building setback lines shown and properly located.
     (n)    Location and description of monuments.
     (o)    Previous lot lines in case of replat.
     (p)    Flood hazard elevation of the area to be subdivided and boundaries of
  the 100 year flood shall be shown.
     (q)    Present zoning classification if applicable.
     (r)    Soil information as specified in §
  153.049(P).
  3.    Certifications
     (a)    Certificate of surveyor and engineer.
     (b)    Certificate of ownership and dedication.
     (c)    Approval of Board of Health where sewer and public water is not
  available.
     (d)    Certificate of approval of Planning Commission.
     (e)    Certificate of the Village of Marblehead's acceptance of streets and
  other public ways.
     (f)    Auditor's certificate of transfer including statement that all due taxes
  have been paid.
     (g)    Certificate of county recorder.
     (h)    Certificate of approval of the village engineer.
     (i)    Protective covenants, if any.
     (j)    Certificate of county sanitary engineer.
     (k)    Certificate of Board of Public Affairs.
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.062 FILING OF THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be filed with the Commission not later than 12
months after the date of approval of the preliminary plat. Otherwise the
preliminary plat will be considered void.
   (B)   The final plat shall be filed by the second Tuesday of any month. The
final plat shall be considered officially filed on the day it is received and
accepted by the Commission and shall be so dated on the application form.
   (C)   A fee, as determined by the Commission, shall be submitted with the
filing of the final plat along with the completed application form,
questionnaire, one reproducible copy and ten copies of the plat.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.063 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The Commission, at its regular meeting or special meeting, shall
approve, approve with noted deficiencies and conditions or disapprove the final
plat within 30 days after it has been filed. Failure of the Commission to act
upon the final plat within such time shall be deemed as approval of the plat.
If the plat is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be stated in the
records of the Commission, and a copy of the record shall be forwarded to the
subdivider. If approved with noted deficiencies and conditions, the subdivider
shall make the necessary corrections and resubmit the final plat for approval
to the Commission within the specified time stipulated on the application form.
If approved, the subdivider will be notified in writing and must obtain the
signature of the Chairperson of the Commission within the specified time
stipulated on the application form. Therefore, in all cases, the subdivider
shall be informed in writing of the action of the Commission.
   (B)   An approved subdivision or a subdivision approved with noted
deficiencies and conditions must be signed by the Commission within 12 months
of the approval date of the Commission or it will be considered null and void.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.064 TRANSMITTAL OF COPIES.
   (A)   Prior to the Chairperson of the Commission or his or her designee
signing the plat, the village engineer, Board of Public Affairs, and sanitary
engineer shall have signed the original tracing. All required improvements
shall have been installed or the necessary performance guarantee for the
ultimate installation of the improvements provided as specified in §§
153.136 through
153.138 of these regulations.
   (B)   When a final plat has been approved and all conditions for approval
have been satisfied, the Director of the Commission or his or her designee
shall sign the certificate of approval on the original tracing and return it to
the subdivider. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to gain all
other necessary certifications before filing the plat with the county auditor
and the county recorder. After the plat is recorded, the original plat or a
mylar reproduction shall be filed with the county engineer.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.075 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The regulations in §§
153.075 et seq., inclusive, shall control the manner in which streets, lots and
other elements of a subdivision are arranged on the land. These design controls
shall help ensure convenience and safe streets, the creation of usable lots,
the provision of space for public utilities and the reservation of land for
recreational uses. The planning of attractive and functional neighborhoods
shall be promoted, minimizing the undesirable features of unplanned, haphazard
growth.
   (B)   The Commission and appropriate village and county officials have the
responsibility for reviewing the design of each future subdivision early in its
design development. The Commission shall ensure that all of the requirements of
§§
153.075 et seq., inclusive, are met.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.076 CONFORMITY TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND ZONING.
   The arrangement, character, and location of all arterial and collector
thoroughfares or extensions thereof shall conform with the Major Thoroughfare
Plan. Thoroughfares not contained in the aforementioned plan shall conform to
the recommendation of the Commission and the village engineer based upon the
design standards set forth in §§
153.077 through
153.087, inclusive. In addition, the final plat shall conform to the Marblehead
Zoning Chapter.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.077 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   If the Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is unsuitable
for subdivision development due to flooding, poor drainage, topography, soils,
inadequate water supply or sewage disposal, transportation facilities and other
such conditions which may endanger health, life or property, and, if from
investigations conducted by the public agencies concerned it is determined that
in the best interest of the public the land should not be developed for the
purpose proposed, the Commission shall not approve the land for subdivision
unless adequate methods are advanced by the subdivider for solving the problems
that will be created by the development of the land.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.078 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade construction and
location of all streets shall conform to the Major Thoroughfare Plan. All
streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
topographical conditions, public convenience and safety, and the proposed uses
of the land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   The circulation pattern shall discourage through traffic in the
interior of a subdivision. The subdivider shall provide, within the boundaries
of the subdivision plat, the necessary right-of-way for the widening,
continuance or alignment of such streets in conformity with the Major
Thoroughfare Plan. The Commission reserves the right to disapprove any street
plan which does not represent good design or does not ensure continuity of
existing street systems.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.079 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CULS-DE-SAC.
   (A)   The maximum length of a street with a cul-de-sac shall be 1,000 feet.
   (B)   The terminal right-of-way shall be a circular area with a minimum
radius of 60 feet measured from a point on the street centerline.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.080 RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR ALL STREETS.
   The rights-of-way for thoroughfares shall be in accordance with the Major
Thoroughfare Plan, and the minimum requirements shall be as follows.
Street Type R/W Width (Feet)
Street Type            R/W Width (Feet)
Limited Access Highway 300
Primary Route          120
Secondary Route        100
Arterial Street        80
Local Collector Street 60
Residential Street     60
Special Streets:
Marginal Access Street 50 - 60
Cul-de-sac             60 radius
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.081 HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   Horizontal street curves shall have the following minimum radii of
centerline curvature.
 
Primary and Secondary Routes   300 Feet
Arterial and Collector Streets 200 Feet
Residential Streets            100 Feet
 
   (B)   A minimum tangent of at least 100 feet may be required between
reversed curves on all residential streets; greater tangential lengths shall be
required on collector and arterial streets and other higher order
thoroughfares.
   (C)   The Commission may modify the aforementioned minimum standards in the
following situations:
      (1)   When a collector or residential street's lines deflect from each
other at any point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve
with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet or
with such greater radius as the Commission may deem necessary for the
particular situation;
      (2)   For arterial streets, curves with radii adequate to ensure longer
sight distances may be required by the Commission; and
      (3)   In subdivisions where the street pattern is curvilinear, curves
shall have radii acceptable to the Commission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.082 VERTICAL ALIGNMENT.
   Vertical street profiles shall conform to the grades listed below.
 
Arterial Streets                                     Maximum Grade - 4%
Collector and Residential Streets and Alleys         Maximum Grade - 6%
Intersection Approaches (for at least 100 Feet)      Maximum Grade - 4%
Rate of Change of Grade                              Maximum Grade - 4%
Minimum Grade (normally only with curbs and gutters) 0.4%
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.083 INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles
as topography or other limiting factors will permit. No intersection of streets
at angles less than 60 degrees shall be approved unless justified by extreme
topographical conditions. In such a case, special provisions as deemed
necessary by the Commission shall be made in designing the intersection to
afford a satisfactory sight distance of approaching vehicles from each
intersecting street.
   (B)   Residential pavement intersections shall be rounded with a 25 foot
radius measured at the back of curbs, if such intersections occur at right
angles. Under the same condition and measured similarly, all other
intersections shall be rounded with a radius deemed appropriate by the
Commission. If an intersection at an angle less than 60 degrees is unavoidable,
the radius of curvature shall be such as to allow vehicles, especially trucks
and buses, to make right turns and proceed in the proper lane without
encroaching upon the high speed lane of a multi-lane thoroughfare or across the
centerline of a two-lane thoroughfare.
   (C)   Streets jogs at intersections with centerline offsets shall be
avoided. Points of access to a primary or secondary route shall be spaced at a
minimum of 800 feet.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.084 SPECIAL STREET TYPES.
   The following requirements shall apply to special street types:
   (A)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted. Temporary dead-end
streets shall be permitted only as a segment of a continuing street plan
subject to extension into undeveloped acreage. Temporary dead-end streets shall
extend to the boundary of such undeveloped acreage and shall be provided with
an interim turnaround satisfactory to the Commission in design. The Commission
shall reserve the right to limit the length of such a dead-end street based on
principles of proper planning, and the Commission may require a street to
extend to the boundary between a proposed subdivision and the undeveloped
acreage to provide for future development.
   (B)   The dedication of new half-streets shall not be permitted if a parcel
to be subdivided exists adjacent to a dedicated or platted and recorded half-
width street or alley, the other half-width of such street or alley falling
within the proposed subdivision shall be platted, providing that in the opinion
of the Commission such right-of-way is necessary for the proper development of
the area.
   (C)   Where subdivision lots would require direct vehicular access onto an
existing or proposed primary or secondary route as specified in the Major
Thoroughfare Plan, a marginal access street shall be designed. A planting strip
of a minimum width of 20 feet shall be provided between the primary or
secondary route and the marginal access street.
   (D)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains the right-of-way of a
railroad or an expressway, the Commission may require a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a distance which will
permit appropriate use of the land situated between such right-of-way and the
required parallel streets. Such distance shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations. In
addition, the Commission may also require the provision of buffer planting
strips, the platting of loop streets or cul-de-sacs connected to such parallel
streets or any combination of such.
   (E)   Easements or reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except where deemed necessary by the Commission and where their
control is definitely placed with the village.
   (F)   In subdividing land along existing streets or roads and within a
proposed subdivision, provisions for the dedication of land for one or more
streets to undeveloped land not fronting on an existing street or road shall be
incorporated. The access streets shall be spaced not less than 800 feet nor
more than 1,400 feet apart.
   (G)   Alleys shall not be approved in residential subdivisions except where
justified by extreme conditions. Alleys may be approved in commercial and
industrial subdivisions if no other provisions can be made for adequate service
access. The minimum widths for alleys shall be 20 feet. Alley intersections,
sharp changes in alignment and dead-ends shall not be permitted unless extreme
conditions would warrant such permission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.085 STREETS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Streets in commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be so planned
as to minimize conflict between vehicular and pedestrian movement.
   (B)   Such streets shall connect with arterial streets so as to not generate
excess traffic on residential streets.
   (C)   The Commission may require marginal access streets in such
subdivisions to provide maximum safety and convenience.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.086 STREET VACATION.
   The Commission shall not recommend to Village Council the vacation of any
street dedicated to and accepted by the public if such vacation will adversely
affect the proper functioning of the existing street system or any future
street plans prepared by, or approved by, the Commission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.087 NAMES OF STREETS.
   Names of streets shall not duplicate nor be confusingly similar to the name
of any other street in Danbury Township, including the Village of Marblehead.
New streets which are extensions of, or in alignment with, existing streets
shall bear the name of the existing streets.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.088 BLOCKS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of blocks.
   (A)   The arrangement of blocks shall conform to the street design criteria
set forth in §§
153.078 through
153.087, inclusive.
   (B)   Blocks shall be arranged to accommodate lots and building sites of the
size and character required by these regulations and any applicable zoning
resolution, to provide for adequate community facilities, and to regard the
limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (C)   Irregularly-shaped blocks, those intended for cul-de-sacs and loop
streets, and those containing interior parks or playgrounds may be approved by
the Commission if properly designed and located.
   (D)   No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor less than 600 feet. The
block shall normally accommodate two tiers of lots and shall have a minimum
width of 250 feet, except where unusual topography or other extreme physical
circumstances exist.
   (E)   Where blocks are more than 900 feet in length, a crosswalk easement
not less than ten feet in width at or near the halfway point of the block may
be required.
   (F)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be
designed specifically for such purposes and shall include adequate provisions
for parking, loading and delivery services. Such blocks shall not be less than
250 feet in width nor less than 1,000 feet in length.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.089 LOTS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of lots.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and the
character of surrounding development.
   (B)   All lots shall conform to or exceed the requirements of these
regulations and the requirements of the Marblehead Zoning Chapter or the
Danbury Township Zoning Resolution where applicable.
   (C)   Each lot shall front on, be contiguous to, or border on a public or
approved private street.
   (D)   All side lot lines should be straight lines and should be at right
angles to street lines or radial on curved street lines except where the
Commission determines that a variation would benefit the public interest.
   (E)   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except where the Commission
determines that it is essential to overcome specific topographical
disadvantages and orientation and location problem due to existing street.
   (F)   No corner lot shall have a width, measured at the required front
setback line, of less than 75 feet.
   (G)   Lots fronting on a street upon which no other lots face should be
avoided. No rear lot line should border adjacent side lot lines. Where the rear
lot lines of a subdivision border a thoroughfare, the Commission may require a
screen planting contained in a nonaccess easement or reservation along the
road.
   (H)   No lot shall have an average depth which is more than five times its
average width.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.090 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   All easements shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
   (B)   Where utilities are located outside street right-of-way lines,
easements at least 20 feet in width centered along rear or side lot lines shall
be provided.
   (C)   All easements locations shall be approved by the utility company or
county agency involved; and, where necessary, easements of greater width may be
required by the Commission.
   (D)   Easements shall also be provided along every water course, storm sewer
or drainage channel within a subdivision as provided in §
153.091 of these regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.091 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The preferred runoff pattern shall be towards the street. The design
of streets and grading shall be such that runoff from roofs, driveways and
other impervious surfaces will be collected in ditches and/or gutters in short
runs 300 feet to 400 feet in length. The runoff shall then be diverted from the
surface into storm sewers or a natural water course. Streets shall be located
away from water courses unless storm sewers are to be installed.
   (B)   Adequate measures for the protection of open and closed drainage
channels shall be provided.
   (C)   Property lines shall be so designed as to follow drainage easements,
except that such easements may cross lots larger than one acre.
   (D)   No water course shall be altered in such a way as to change the amount
or direction of flow; no fill, building, nor structures shall be situated in
natural water courses unless provision is made for the flow of water in a
manner satisfactory to the village engineer.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.092 PUBLIC SITES, OPEN SPACE AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   Where a park, playground, school, public access to water frontage or
other public uses, which are contained within the Comprehensive Plan are
located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, the Commission may
request the dedication of such area within the subdivision or that provision be
made for the acquisition of such area by the proper agency within a period of
two years or other mutually acceptable period.
   (B)   The Commission may require up to 10% of a subdivision, exclusive of
streets, to be allocated for recreational purposes. Such requirement shall
depend upon the size of the proposed subdivision, the density of population,
the location of the subdivision in relation to existing public open spaces, and
other similar determining factors.
   (C)   Where a large scale subdivision is proposed, the Commission may
require that consideration be given to sites for schools, parks, playgrounds
and other such areas for common use and that provisions be made for such
reservation or acquisition by the proper agency.
   (D)   The Commission reserves the right to deny approval to a subdivision if
such a subdivision disregards the preservation of natural features which add
value to residential development and the community, such as wooded areas, water
courses, beaches, areas of natural or historical significance and similar
irreplaceable assets as determined by the appropriate federal, state and county
agencies.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.093 SOIL EROSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the development of a subdivision, the developer shall not create a
situation where the erosion of soil can impair a public or private surface
ditch, stream or river; nor shall excessive amounts of sediment be deposited
onto an adjoining property. Adequate controls of erosion and sedimentation of
both a temporary and permanent nature shall be provided during all phases of
clearing, grading and construction to conserve soil resources and to ensure no
significant change in water quality.
   (B)   In the event that any developer shall intend to make changes in the
contour of the land to a degree that erosion and sedimentation may occur, the
developer shall submit an erosion and sedimentation plan for approval to the
Commission. The Commission will request review of the plan by the Ottawa County
Soil and Water Conservation District. Failure to employ the recommended
practices is cause to restrain the developer from further work until he or she
complies with the recommendations and withholding of performance bond payments
for work completed.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.105 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   All improvements required herein shall be constructed prior to securing the
applicable signatures on the final approved plat or the subdivider shall
furnish a performance guarantee for the estimated cost plus 10% of the
installation of the required improvements to the appropriate agency.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.106 DETERMINATION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Commission with the appropriate agencies shall determine the type,
size and amount of required improvements.
   (B)   This determination will be based upon the minimum criteria established
by and available from the agencies as it relates to that required improvement.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.107 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall design and construct improvements at least to the
standards and specifications outlined in these regulations.
   (B)   However, the Commission may reasonably modify the standards and
specifications in cases of unusual or exceptional conditions.
   (C)   The minimum requirements for material and construction procedures
shall be in conformance with the standards of the current volume of
Construction and Material Specifications of the Ohio Department of
Transportation and with the requirements of the Ohio Department of Health and
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and the Ottawa County sanitary engineer.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.108 CONSTRUCTION DRAWING APPROVAL.
   (A)   Before any construction on required improvements is started, the
construction drawings shall be approved by the responsible officials listed
herein.
   (B)   The drawings shall be on file with the Commission, the village
engineer, the Board of Public Affairs, the county sanitary engineer, the
Village Council, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency where water and
sanitary sewer main construction are involved.
   (C)   Construction drawings shall be drawn and signed by a registered
engineer, including registration number, and shall be in accordance with the
Commission's determination of required improvements.
   (D)   Any significant changes to an approved set of improvement drawings
shall require the developer to file an "as built" set of plans with the
appropriate agency.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.109 INSPECTION.
   (A)   During construction and after completion of the required improvements,
the subdivider shall request, in writing, the inspection of improvements by the
responsible officials as listed herein.
   (B)   Upon completion of all improvements, the subdivider shall request, in
writing, a final inspection by the appropriate agency.
   (C)   All inspection fees and costs are charged to the developer.
   (D)   At least two days notice shall be given for any required inspection.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.110 FEES AND PRECONSTRUCTION NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The subdivider shall pay to the appropriate agency, a fee as
prescribed by such agency to defray the costs of inspection, engineering
services or other services in connection with inspection and supervision of the
improvements required herein.
   (B)   The subdivider shall notify the responsible agency at least one week
in advance of the start of construction work and the department inspection fee
shall be paid prior to the start of such construction.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.111 STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   The following are the improvement requirements for public streets.
   (A)   Required street surfacing, construction and pavement widths. Required
street surfacing, street construction, and pavement widths will vary depending
upon the location of the subdivision, the character of the building development
served and the amount of traffic involved.
   (B)   Grading. All streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-
of-way and to blend with the natural lay of the land to the satisfaction of the
village engineer.
   (C)   Preparation of roadbed. The roadbed shall be properly prepared
according to the typical cross sections approved by the village engineer.
   (D)   Alignment. Streets shall have satisfactory vertical and horizontal
curves in accordance with the specifications listed in these regulations.
   (E)   Guard rails. Where bridges or large culverts are required or other
dangerous areas exist along a newly constructed street, acceptable guard rails
shall be provided by the subdivider and approved by the village engineer.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.112 STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following are the required minimum street construction standards.
Standard typical section drawings are available from the county engineer's
office.
Type of Street by Use       Pavement Width in Feet
Primary and Secondary       State Highway          See Standard Drawings***
Routes and Arterial Streets Specifications
Type of Street by Use       Pavement Width in Feet
Primary and Secondary       State Highway          See Standard Drawings***
Routes and Arterial Streets Specifications
Local Collector Street      32 - 36*               Type "A" or "B"
Residential Street          20 - 28**              Type "A", "B" or "C"
Cul-de-sac                  20 - 28**              Type "A", "B" or "C"
Alley                       16                     Type "C"
* Where parking is to be permitted.
** Curbs and gutters are recommended for all roads. Curbs only on the high
side of the street (i.e. inside circle of a cul-de-sac).
*** All available from the county engineer's office.
 
   (B)   For residential streets and cul-de-sacs without curbs and gutters, the
pavement width shall be 20 to 24 feet with roadside drainage ditches. The
requirements for drainage shall be as per the type of street construction
above. Where curbs and gutters are required or on extensions of existing curbs
and gutters, the pavement width shall be 24 to 28 feet including curbs and
gutters.
   (C)   In certain instances where a commercial area is involved and no off-
street parking facilities are provided and no parking is permitted on the
street at any time, a parking lane at least eight feet in width on each side of
the street and paved to the satisfaction of and in accordance with the
specification approved by the village engineer may be required in addition to
the necessary number of lanes for moving traffic.
   (D)   Where pavement widths greater than those specified above are
necessary, provision of same shall be discussed with the public officials
having jurisdiction over the planning and construction of public ways to
determine whether or not public expenditures for such additional width can or
should be made simultaneously with the subdivider's improvement program.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.113 STREET VERTICAL STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Vertical street profiles shall conform to the maximum and minimum grades
listed below.
 
Arterial Streets                         Maximum Grade - 4%
Collectors and Residential Streets and   Maximum Grade - 6%
Alleys
Intersection Approaches                  Maximum Grade - 4% (for at least 100
                                         Feet)
Rate of Change of Grade                  Maximum Grade - 4 Feet per 100 Feet
Minimum Grade (normally only for streets 0.4%
with curbs and gutters)
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.114 STREET HORIZONTAL STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Horizontal street curves shall have the following minimum radii of
centerline curvature:
 
Primary and Secondary Routes   300 Feet
Arterial and Collector Streets 200 Feet
Residential Streets            100 Feet
 
   (B)   A minimum tangent of at least 100 feet shall be provided between
reversed curves on all minor streets. Greater tangential lengths shall be
required on collector and arterial streets and thoroughfares.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.115 TURN-AROUND AND INTERSECTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The cul-de-sac shall be constructed with a pavement radius of
not less than 40 feet where open ditches are present, and up to a maximum of 55
feet for curb and gutter streets as measured to the outside edge of the curb.
      (2)   The minimum radius to the right-of-line shall be 60 feet.
   (B)   Where minor residential streets have a change of direction of
approximately 90 degrees ("L" intersection), one of the following shall be
provided:
      (1)   A minimum radius of 40 feet measured from the intersection of the
two street centerlines to the outer edge of the outside curb (or edge of street
surface) and satisfactory reverse at either end of same; and the radius of the
inside curb (or edge of street surfacing) shall comply with the requirement in
division (C) below;
      (2)   A curve with a street centerline radius of 75 feet or greater; or
      (3)   A satisfactory design combining the features of the above two
provisions.
   (C)   All standard street intersections shall ordinarily be provided with
radii of the back edge of the curb (or edge of street surface) which will
result in the space between the edge and the street right-of- way line along
the straight part of the street being maintained on the corners.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.116 PUBLIC STREET CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All street construction work, including but not limited to pavement,
base, grading, earthwork, storm sewers, catch basins, guardrails and the like
shall be in conformance with the current volume of Construction and Material
Specifications of the State of Ohio Department of Transportation as they
pertain to this type of improvement.
   (B)   An escrow account may be established, subject to the discretion of the
appropriate inspecting agency and/or village official, for the estimated cost
of a public street as determined by a registered engineer and subject to
approval by the inspecting agency and/or village official of the proposed
improvements within the subdivision plus 10% additional for contingencies
during construction.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.117 CURB AND GUTTER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible village official is the village engineer.
   (B)   The requirements for curbs and gutters will vary according to the
character of the area and the density of development. Curb or curbs and gutters
shall be required where the normal drainage cannot be properly handled by side
ditches as determined by the village engineer.
   (C)   Where curbs exist on abutting property, the Commission will ordinarily
require their expansion throughout the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.118 CURB AND GUTTER STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Curbs shall be constructed according to standards established by Ohio
Department of Transportation Standard Construction Drawings or as modified in §
153.112. A satisfactory substitute may be authorized by the Commission if
requested by the subdivider and approved by the village engineer.
   (B)   The overall width of curb and gutter shall not exceed two and one-half
feet and shall be approved by the village engineer.
   (C)   Curbs or curbs and gutters shall be constructed in conformance with
the current volume of Construction and Material Specifications and standard
drawings of the Ohio Department of Transportation as they pertain to this type
of improvement.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.119 SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible official is the village engineer.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street.
   (C)   Public sidewalks may be required for commercial and industrial
subdivisions if deemed necessary by the Commission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.120 SIDEWALK STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum width for sidewalks shall be four feet, but the Commission
may require a greater width in the vicinity of shopping centers, schools and
recreation facilities, or where similar intensive urban uses exist.
   (B)   A minimum transverse slope of 2% from the property line to the curb
shall be maintained where possible to facilitate drainage.
   (C)   In residential areas, sidewalks shall be placed at a suitable distance
between curb and property lines, but shall not be placed closer than one foot
from the property lines.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete and shall
be in conformance with the current volume of Construction and Material
Specifications of the Ohio Department of Transportation as they pertain to this
type of improvement.
   (E)   ADA - handicap ramps shall be provided at all intersections and
crosswalks. Sidewalks shall be installed from property line to property line on
all roads within the development.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.121 STREET TREES.
   Newly planted trees/shrubs or existing trees/shrubs within the existing or
proposed street right-of- way shall not cause interference with underground
utilities or visibility problems at street intersections.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.122 WATER SUPPLY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible officials for water mains are the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, Board of Public Affairs or Village Council.
   (B)   (1)   A developer shall contact the Board of Public Affairs as to
whether a public water supply is available.
      (2)   If available, the developer must connect to the public water supply
per village specifications.
      (3)   If not available, the Board of Public Affairs will provide a letter
of non-availability which the developer may then take to the Ottawa County
Board of Health or the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, whichever is
appropriate.
   (C)   Where a supply of approved public water is not reasonably available at
the plat boundary, the subdivision shall be served by private water systems if
approved by the County Board of Health.
   (D)   Where the water supply is to be provided by an individual public water
supply system, (as defined in §
153.008 herein) the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency shall be contacted.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.123 WATER SUPPLY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Water mains shall be laid wherever possible in the planting strip as
near to the edge of the road right-of-way as possible. Minimum cover shall be
4.5 feet.
   (B)   All water mains shall be constructed according to the current
standards and specifications established by the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (C)   All plans, specifications, and construction of water mains shall be
approved by the Board of Public Affairs.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.124 SANITARY SEWER AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible officials are the County Board of Health, the county
sanitary engineer, the Board of County Commissioners, sewer district boards,
and the Commission and the responsible state agency is the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   All existing requirements and regulations, future requirements and
regulations, and/or revisions of requirements and regulations of the County
Board of Health and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency shall be complied
with regarding installation of septic tanks, sewage tanks, sewage treatment
systems, group sanitary sewage disposal plants and sanitary sewer systems.
   (C)   Where an adequate public sanitary sewer system is reasonably
available, public sanitary sewers shall be installed to adequately serve all
lots including lateral connections to the public system.
   (D)   If a public sanitary sewer system is not available, the connection to
an available future system (as determined by the County Board of Health, and/or
county sanitary engineer) shall be guaranteed, in writing, on the final plat
before approval is granted.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.125 SANITARY SEWER AND FACILITIES STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No sanitary sewers and sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be
constructed, installed and/or operated without the approval of the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency and/or county sanitary engineer.
   (B)   The design, construction and installation shall be according to
current standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (C)   All plans, specifications and construction of sanitary sewers to be
dedicated to the county shall be approved by the Ottawa County sanitary
engineer.
   (D)   Required treatment of sewage shall be in accordance with the
regulations of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.126 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible official is the village engineer.
   (B)   A drainage system adequate to serve the needs of all proposed new
streets and the entire subdivision will be required in new subdivisions. Where
a public storm sewer main is available at the plat boundary, the subdivider
shall construct a storm sewer system and connect with such storm sewer main. If
such storm sewer systems are not accessible, adequate stormwater drainage shall
be provided by natural drainage channels with easements of adequate widths as
determined by the village engineer and approved by the Commission.
   (C)   When natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way, it
shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to have satisfactory bridge or
culverts designed to the county engineer's specifications.
   (D)   Pipe culverts shall be placed under all driveways where the street
design provides for an open ditch.
   (E)   Where the street design provides for an open ditch, the ditch shall be
satisfactorily constructed to drain stormwater.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.127 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All culverts shall extend not less than 18 feet on each side of the
centerline of the pavement, measured at right angles to the centerlines; but
they must extend between street side ditches.
   (B)   Pipe culverts under driveways shall not be less than 12 inches in
diameter and 24 feet in length, shall be reinforced concrete, corrugated metal
pipe or other as approved by the village engineer, and shall be laid so as to
maintain the flowline of the ditch.
   (C)   All culverts shall be designed according to Manning's Formula and the
Federal Highway Administration Nomographs and/or other approved methods. All
calculations shall be shown.
   (D)   All stormwater drainage improvements shall be in conformance with
current Construction and Material Specifications of the Department of
Transportation, State of Ohio, as they pertain to this type of improvement.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.128 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Streets. All publicly dedicated streets shall have centerline controls
established at all deflection points, intersections and cul-de-sac centers.
Monumentation to consist of 1 inch by 30 inch iron rod punched set in a 12 inch
by 12 inch by 30 inch concrete base set one-fourth inch below finish pavement.
This monumentation shall be set after final paving is complete.
   (B)   Lots. On lots, iron monuments one-half inch in diameter minimum and 30
inches long with appropriate identification caps shall be placed on all lot
corners and at all points on property lines where there is a change in
direction.
   (C)   Plat corners. On plat corners, stone or concrete reference monuments
or iron pins set in concrete shall be used. These monuments shall be a minimum
of six inches by 30 inches with suitable counterpoint and ferro-magnetic
centers.
   (D)   Surveyor certification. A registered surveyor shall certify the
installation of iron pins, stone monuments and monument boxes.
   (E)   Grading considerations. Where grading considerations or other
circumstances prohibit the placement of either lot or street monuments prior to
the approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall ensure their placement
with a performance guarantee as provided for in §§
153.136 and
153.137 herein.
   (F)   Approved plats. For approved plats, all street improvements must be
completed, inspected, approved and maintained for a period of one year before
the street will be accepted as a public street. Inspection fees may be
required.
   (G)   Permanent site bench mark. At least one permanent site bench mark
shall be established with description and elevation placed on the improvement
plans. Elevations are to be based on U.S.G.S. datum. Written certification of
the registered surveyor shall be submitted certifying the required monuments
and pins are in place prior to requesting signatures on the final plat.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.129 REQUIRED DATA.
   (A)   Construction plans of all proposed improvements, consisting of survey
data, street and sewer plans and profiles, typical cross sections,
specifications, estimates of costs and other materials shall be submitted to
the Commission for an inspection as to general conformance with the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   The construction plans should be submitted in preliminary draft form
at the time of submission for the preliminary plat and shall be submitted in
final form at or before the time of submission of the final plat.
   (C)   The Commission may waive this requirement in cases of strictly minor
subdivisions on improved streets. After final approval, mylar originals shall
be submitted to the appropriate agency.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.130 SURVEY DATA.
   (A)   A complete survey shall be made of all lands to be subdivided.
   (B)   The survey shall tie into the system of permanent civil monuments.
   (C)   All monuments, property lines, centerlines of streets, and right-of-
way lines of alleys and easements adjoining or within the tract shall be tied
into the survey.
   (D)   All surveys must conform to the Minimum Standards for Boundary Surveys
in the State of Ohio per Chapter 4733-37 of the Ohio Administrative Code.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.131 PLANS AND PROFILES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit on mylar or reproducible material a
plan, profile and typical cross section for each proposed street in the
subdivision.
      (2)   Water and sewer mains, with grades and pipe sizes, shall normally
be shown on the same plan; however, the Commission may require water and sewer
mains to be shown on separate plan and profile sheets.
      (3)   A minimum scale of one inch equal to 50 feet for plans and one inch
equal to five feet for profiles shall be maintained unless otherwise authorized
by the Commission.
      (4)   A sheet size of 24 inches by 36 inches drawn with reproducible ink
or pencil shall be used.
   (B)   Plans. Plans shall show:
      (1)   Right-of-way lines of thoroughfares, streets, alleys and easements,
and location of street and surface therein;
      (2)   Centerlines of thoroughfares, streets and easements;
      (3)   Data on the location, length and bearings of all lines, including
length of radii, arcs, tangents and curves. (Central angles and street curves
may be referred to a curve table.);
      (4)   Location of storm and sanitary sewers and water mains, and items
that pertain thereto, i.e., manholes, hydrants, valves and the like;
      (5)   All bearing lines shall be referred to established section lines,
whenever possible; and
      (6)   All subsurface utilities, existing or proposed, shall be shown on
the plans, whenever possible, and be in accordance with the Ohio Utilities
Protection Service.
   (C)   Profiles. Profiles shall show:
      (1)   Centerline elevations, percent of grade and location and length of
vertical curves on all streets;
      (2)   Elevations shall be based on U.S. Geodetic Survey Datum and
permanent bench marks whenever possible; and
      (3)   At least one site bench mark referenced to U.S.G.S. shall be shown
on the plan/profile sheet.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.132 TYPICAL SECTIONS.
   (A)   Typical street cross sections or half-sections at a scale not smaller
than one inch to five feet shall be required for all proposed streets and may
be included on the plan and profile sheet.
   (B)   Typical sections shall show the following if required:
      (1)   Width of roadway;
      (2)   Type of subsurface and surface;
      (3)   Type of curb and gutter; and
      (4)   Location and width of sidewalk.
   (C)   Where considerable cut and fill is involved, several cross sections of
streets in the subdivision shall conform to the minimum cross section standards
adopted by the Commission and the village engineer as per §
153.112.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.133 TOPOGRAPHIC MAP.
   (A)   Generally. A topographic map shall be submitted with the improvement
drawings showing the following data at a scale not less than one inch equal to
100 feet shall ordinarily be required on all subdivisions of land.
   (B)   Contours.
      (1)   One foot intervals where average slopes do not exceed 5%.
      (2)   Two foot intervals where average slopes exceed 5% but do not exceed
15%, depending upon the roughness of the side and the corresponding interval
considered necessary by the Commission to describe the character of the land.
      (3)   Five foot intervals where average slopes exceed 15%.
   (C)   Natural features. Existing buildings or structures, rock outcrops,
high points, water courses, depressions, ponds, marshes, wooded areas and the
boundary lines of the property.
   (D)   Alteration of existing topography.
      (1)   Proposed changes in grade shall be shown on the contour map or on
an accompanying sheet.
      (2)   Where changes in grade will affect adjoining property, such as
diverting stormwater, the approval of the Commission and village engineer shall
be required.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.134 IMPROVEMENT AND COST ESTIMATE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Cost estimates for various materials, labor and the like, necessary to
complete all required improvements for the final plat shall be provided as
requested.
   (B)   The estimate is to be prepared by a registered engineer and may be
used as a basis for establishing a performance guarantee.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.135 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Materials and construction procedures shall be in conformance with the
general provisions of the Village of Marblehead and the current volume of
Construction and Material Specifications of the Ohio Department of
Transportation.
   (B)   These material and construction procedures shall be shown on the
specification drawings for all improvements.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.136 GUARANTEE FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All required improvements should be completed prior to the granting of
the final plat approval.
   (B)   Completed improvements shall be in accordance with an approved
improvement plan and in accordance with the requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   When required improvements are not completed, the subdivider shall
ensure their completion with a performance guarantee acceptable to the
Commission, the Village Council and the appropriate official before the final
plat may be approved.
   (D)   All improvements shall be completed within a 2 year period from the
date of final plan approval.
   (E)   Otherwise the appropriate official will take the necessary steps to
complete or correct the improvements using the performance guarantee.
   (F)   Extensions to the completion deadline may be granted by the
appropriate official, if necessary.
   (G)   Once the improvements have been completed, a one year period of time
must pass before the improvements will be accepted.
   (H)   A sufficient amount of funds will be retained during the warranty
period to ensure any required repairs can be undertaken.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.137 TYPES OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   To guarantee the construction and/or maintenance of required improvements
prior to the approval and recording of the final plat, the subdivider may be
required to provide a performance guarantee in one or a combination of the
following arrangements.
   (A)   Performance bond. The subdivider may post a bond executed by a surety
company equal to the estimated cost plus 10% of the required improvements. The
bond shall be in favor of the Village Council. The bond shall guarantee
construction of the improvements according to the plans and specifications
approved by the Commission and the responsible public officials. The term of
the bond shall not exceed two years, except the Commission may grant an
extension where due cause can be shown.
   (B)   Deposit. The subdivider may make a deposit with a responsible escrow
agent or with a trust company. The deposit shall be money or negotiable bonds
in an amount equal to the estimated cost plus 10% of the required improvements.
If a cash deposit is made, an agreement may be executed to provide payments to
the contractor or the subdivider from the deposit as the work progresses and is
approved by the responsible officials.
   (C)   Escrow agreements. Where escrow agreements for the proposed
improvements are proposed for the estimated cost of the improvements plus 10%,
they will constitute sufficient guarantee for the installation of required
improvements in lieu of other methods stated above. An escrow agreement form is
available from the appropriate agency involved and must be used.
   (D)   Failure of subdivider to complete improvements. In case the subdivider
shall fail to complete the required improvements work within such time period
as required by the conditions or guarantees as outlined above, the Commission
and Village Council may proceed to have such work completed and reimburse the
village for the cost thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified
check, surety bond, or escrow account, or shall take the necessary steps to
require performance by the bonding company.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.138 PROGRESSIVE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   After the preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision has been approved
by the Commission, the subdivider may improve a part or the entire area and
submit a final plat for that improved portion to the Commission for approval.
   (B)   The subdivider may make the necessary arrangements for completion of
the improvements as provided in §§
153.136 and
153.137 herein and submit a final plat for that portion to the Commission for
approval.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.139 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS FOR USE AND MAINTENANCE
BY PUBLIC.
   (A)   The subdivider shall properly construct and shall be responsible for
making repairs and/or alterations to provide that improvements are in good
condition at the time the subdivider requests their acceptance by the Village
Council.
   (B)   The acceptance of improvements for use and maintenance by the public
shall be subject to satisfactory compliances with the following requirements:
      (1)   Inspection and approval of all improvements by the responsible
county and village officials, with notification by those agencies to the
Commission and Village Council in writing when the construction of the
improvements has been satisfactorily completed;
      (2)   When the required improvement construction is completed and all
required written approvals regarding same have been granted and received by the
Commission and Village Council, the subdivider shall place a certificate on the
final plat indicating the acceptance, by Village Council of the improvement
(including the improvements constructed therein) for use and maintenance by the
public; and
      (3)   (a)   When the required improvement construction is not completed,
or written approvals of completed construction have not been received by the
Commission, and Village Council prior to submittal of the final plat for
approval, the Commission shall, if it approves the plat, notify Village Council
when the construction of all required streets and other required improvements
in a specific plat has been satisfactorily completed, giving a description of
the improvement and Council shall thereupon adopt a resolution/ordinance
accepting such improvement (which shall include the improvements constructed
therein) for use and maintenance by the public.
         (b)   However, such acceptance shall be dated one year from the date
of the resolution/ordinance and the subdivider shall keep such improvements in
a satisfactory state of maintenance, otherwise such acceptance shall be voided.
         (c)   Where the improvement is to be publicly owned, transfer of the
improvement, in a manner acceptable to Village Council, shall occur.
         (d)   Streets will not be accepted for public maintenance until
finished pavement has been in place for at least one year and has been
inspected and approved by the village engineer, along with all other
improvements.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
§ 153.150 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To restrict or prohibit the subdivision of lands for uses which are
dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood or which, with
reasonably anticipated improvements, will cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   (B)   To require that each subdivision lot in an area vulnerable to floods
be provided with a safe building site with adequate access and that public
facilities which serve such uses will be installed with protection against
flood damage at the time of construction; and
   (C)   To protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazards by prohibiting the subdivision of
unprotected flood hazard lands, requiring that flood hazard areas be delineated
on all plats, and reserving through deed restrictions areas not suitable for
development.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.151 FLOODPLAIN EVALUATION.
   (A)   (1)   The primary source of information that will be used by the
Commission in determining the flood hazard potential of an area is the Floodway
and Flood Boundary Maps, as amended.
      (2)   These maps were prepared by the Federal Flood Insurance
Administration for the Village of Marblehead.
      (3)   Where necessary, other sources of information may be used by the
Commission.
   (B)   (1)   A proposed subdivision will be located on the maps and its
flooding potential determined.
      (2)   Restrictions on the types of uses within a portion or the entire
proposed subdivision will be noted and must be followed.
      (3)   The Commission will meet with the subdivider to evaluate the degree
and the extent of the floodprone areas within the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.152 FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the other stipulations set forth in these regulations, the
following shall be required of subdivisions within the delineated flood hazard
areas.
   (A)   The Floodway and Flood Boundary areas shall be clearly labeled on both
the preliminary and final plat.
   (B)   (1)   Building site shall not be permitted in the Floodway area.
      (2)   They may be permitted in the Flood Boundary area if the sites are
filled or if the first habitable floor of the structure is elevated above the
100 year flood elevation of the area.
      (3)   The 100 year flood elevation will be stated on both the preliminary
and final plats.
   (C)   Fill areas shall extend beyond the limits of the intended building
site and shall include areas for proper drainage and slope.
   (D)   (1)   The County Board of Health shall determine if adequate methods
for waste disposal and water supply can be accomplished for each building site.
      (2)   Where such systems will not function properly, the Commission will
not approve the subdivision.
   (E)   The village engineer shall determine the street elevations in flood
hazard areas and state what drainage systems will be required for the
subdivision.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.153 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations shall be
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes.
   (B)   These regulations do not imply that areas outside the delineated flood
hazard areas or land uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the
Village of Marblehead or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
REVISIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.185 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded by the county recorder of
Ottawa County, Ohio, or have any validity until the plat has received a final
approval in the manner prescribed in these regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.186 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat
of a subdivision after it is signed by the Commission in writing on the plat,
unless the plat is first resubmitted to the Commission.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.187 SALE OF LAND WITHIN SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a
subdivision shall attempt to transfer any land within the subdivision before
such plat has been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed in these
regulations.
   (B)   The description of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the transaction from the provisions of these
regulations.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.188 VARIANCES.
   The following regulations shall govern the granting of variances.
   (A)   (1)   Where the Commission finds that extraordinary and practical
difficulty may result from strict compliance with these regulations, due to
exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, it may vary the
regulations so as to relieve such difficulty, provided such relief may be
granted without detriment to the public interest and without impairing the
intent and purpose of these regulations or the desirable development of the
neighborhood and community.
      (2)   Such variations shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of these regulations or the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   (1)   In granting variances or modifications, the Commission may
require such conditions as, in its judgment, will secure substantially the
objective of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
      (2)   The Commission shall use the following factors or standards in
considering whether a variance shall be issued:
         (a)   Whether the property in question will yield a reasonable return
or whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the
variance;
         (b)   Where the variance is substantial;
         (c)   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance;
         (d)   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services such as water, sewer, garbage collection, fire, EMS,
police and the like;
         (e)   Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge
of the subdivision restrictions and did not create the practical difficulty by
his or her own actions;
         (f)   Whether the property owner's predicament feasibly can be
prevented through some method other than a variance; and
         (g)   Whether the spirit and intent behind the subdivision regulations
would be observed and substantial justice done by granting the variance.
   (C)   Any variance granted shall be entered in the minutes of the Commission
setting forth the reasons which justify the variance.
   (D)   A fee, as determined by the Commission, shall be paid to the
Commission upon filing for a variance.
Application for Subdivision Variance
Date__________
Application #___________
Name_______________________________________________________________________
Address_____________________________________________________________________
Phone_______________________________________________________________________
1.   Locational description:_____________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
2.   Nature of variance requested: Describe generally the nature of the variance:
__________
___________________________________________________________________________
3.   Justification of variance: On a separate sheet, please attach a statement
explaining why the variance from requirements of the subdivision regulations is
requested. Include such items as:
      a.   Whether the property in question will yield a reasonable return or whether
there can be any beneficial use of the property without the variance.
      b.   Where the variance is substantial.
      c.   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be substantially
altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a substantial detriment as a
result of the variance.
      d.   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of governmental
services such as water, sewer, garbage collection, fire, police, EMS and the like.
      e.   Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge of the
subdivision restrictions and did not create the practical difficulty by his or her own
actions.
      f.   Whether the property owner's predicament feasibly can be prevented through
some method other than a variance.
      g.   Whether the spirit and intent behind the subdivision regulations would be
observed and substantial justice done by granting the variance.
I certify that all information contained in this application and its supplements is
true and correct.
__________      ______________________________
Date         Signature
(For Official Use)
Date Received___________            Action_________________
Fee Due________________            ______________________
 
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.189 APPEAL.
   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by these regulations or
the action of the Commission has the rights of appeal as set forth in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 711 or any other applicable section of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.190 FEES.
   (A)   Fees shall be determined by Village Council.
   (B)   All fees shall be submitted with the applications.
   (C)   The aforementioned fees shall be paid in legal tender or by check or
money order made payable to the Marblehead Planning Commission Fund.
   (D)   No final plat, preliminary plat or administrative approval or appeal
for variance shall be considered filed until the fees have been paid.
   (E)   Other agencies may require a fee to defray their costs of inspection
or other work.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
Penalty, see § 153.999
ENACTMENT AND ADOPTION
§ 153.205 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   These regulations shall become effective from and after the date of
their approval and adoption by the Village of Marblehead, Ottawa County, Ohio,
after public hearing and certification to the Ottawa County recorder.
   (B)   Henceforth, Ordinance No. 32 of 1992, adopted on January 14, 1993
shall be deemed to be repealed.
   (C)   These regulations shall in no way affect any subdivision having
received preliminary or final approval prior to the effective date provided.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.206 ADOPTION, RECORDING.
   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 711, the Marblehead Village Council, after a
public hearing held on June 14, 2001 hereby adopts the Subdivision Regulations
of the Village of Marblehead on this June 14, 2001.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to the violations of these regulations.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates any rule or regulation adopted by the Village
of Marblehead for the purpose of setting standards and requiring and securing
the construction of improvements within a subdivision or fails to comply with
any order pursuant thereto is creating a public nuisance and the creation
thereof may be enjoined and the maintenance thereof may be abated by action at
suit by the village or any citizen thereof.
      (2)   Whoever violates these regulations shall forfeit and pay not less
than $10 nor more than $1,000.
      (3)   Such sum may be recovered with costs in a civil action brought in
the Court of Common Pleas of Ottawa County.
   (B)   A county recorder who records a plat contrary to the provisions of
these regulations shall forfeit and pay not less than $100 nor more than $500,
to be recovered with costs in a civil action by the Village Solicitor in the
name and for the use of the Village of Marblehead.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of any land, transfers any
lot, parcel or tract of such land from or in accordance with a plat of a
subdivision before such plat has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder, shall forfeit and pay the sum of not less than $10 nor more than $500
for each lot, parcel, or tract of land so sold.
      (2)   The description of such lot, parcel, or tract by metes and bounds
in the deed or transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller from the
forfeiture provided in this section.
      (3)   Such sum may be recovered in a civil action, brought by the Village
Solicitor, other corresponding official, or the Commission in the name of the
Village of Marblehead.
      (4)   The sale of lots, parcels or tract from the plat of a subdivision
where these areas are indicated for the exclusive use of the abutting or other
owners in such subdivision and are not public streets, ways, or grounds shall
not serve to exempt the seller from the requirements of Ohio R.C. Chapter 711,
as amended or from the forfeiture herein provided.
   (D)   Any person who disposes of, offers for sale or lease for a time
exceeding five years any lot or any part of a lot in a subdivision before
provisions of these regulations are complied with shall forfeit and pay the sum
of not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each lot or part of a lot so sold,
offered for sale or leased, to be recovered with costs in a civil action in the
name of the Fiscal Officer for the use of the Village of Marblehead.
(Ord. 18, 2001, passed 6-14-2001)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Interpretation of terms or words
   
154.004   Definitions
General Regulations
   
154.015   Purpose
   
154.016   Conformance required
   
154.017   Conversion of dwellings
   
154.018   General lot area regulations
   
154.019   General yard requirements
   
154.020   Building regulations
   
154.021   Non-conforming uses
   
154.022   Screening
   
154.023   Annexation
Establishment of Districts
   
154.035   Purpose
   
154.036   Districts
   
154.037   Zoning map
   
154.038   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.039   Prohibition against short term rental
Residential - 1 District
   
154.050   Permitted uses
   
154.051   Conditionally permitted uses
   
154.052   Building height limit
   
154.053   Lot requirements
   
154.054   Yards required
   
154.055   Percentage of lot coverage
   
154.056   Permitted signs
   
154.057   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.058   Dwelling requirements
   
154.059   Siting requirements
   
154.060   Certificate of compliance
Residential - 2 District
   
154.075   Permitted uses
   
154.076   Conditionally permitted uses
   
154.077   Building height limit
   
154.078   Lot requirements
   
154.079   Yard requirements
   
154.080   Percentage of lot coverage
   
154.081   Permitted signs
   
154.082   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.083   Dwelling requirements
   
154.084   Siting requirements
   
154.085   Certificate of compliance
Residential - Johnson's Island District
   
154.100   Permitted uses
   
154.101   Conditionally permitted uses
   
154.102   Building height limit
   
154.103   Lot requirements
   
154.104   Yards required
   
154.105   Percentage of lot coverage
   
154.106   Permitted signs
   
154.107   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.108   Dwelling requirements
   
154.109   Accessory buildings
   
154.110   Siting requirements
   
154.111   Certificate of compliance
Business District
   
154.125   Permitted uses
   
154.126   Conditionally permitted uses
   
154.127   Building height limit
   
154.128   Required lot area and lot width
   
154.129   Yards required
   
154.130   Permitted signs
   
154.131   Percentage of lot coverage
   
154.132   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.133   Dwelling requirements
   
154.134   Conditions for single-family homes and two-family homes
   
154.135   Certificate of compliance
Manufacturing District
   
154.145   Permitted uses
   
154.146   Conditionally permitted uses
   
154.147   Building height
   
154.148   Lot area, width and yard requirements
   
154.149   Signs
   
154.150   Off-street parking and loading requirements
   
154.151   Percentage of lot coverage
   
154.152   Certificate of compliance
Institutional District
   
154.165   Permitted uses
   
154.166   Building height limit
   
154.167   Required lot area and lot width
   
154.168   Yards required
   
154.169   Signs
   
154.170   Off-street parking and loading requirements
   
154.171   Percentage of lot coverage
   
154.172   Certificate of compliance
Off-Street Parking and Loading Facilities
   
154.185   General requirements
   
154.186   Parking space dimensions
   
154.187   Loading space requirements and dimensions
   
154.188   Drainage
   
154.189   Maintenance
   
154.190   Lighting
   
154.191   Location of parking spaces
   
154.192   Screening and/or landscaping, parking area capacity
   
154.193   Required trash areas
   
154.194   Minimum distance and setbacks
   
154.195   Width of driveways
   
154.196   Access
   
154.197   Parking space requirements
   
154.198   General interpretations
   
154.199   Plot plan review
Signs
   
154.210   Purpose
   
154.211   Definitions
   
154.212   Sign prohibited
   
154.213   Sign regulations
   
154.214   Permits
   
154.215   Nonconforming signs
   
154.216   Unsafe and unlawful signs
   
154.217   Application for variance or appeal
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.230   Zoning permits required
   
154.231   Contents of application for zoning permit
   
154.232   Approval of zoning permit
   
154.233   Submission to director of the Ohio Department of Transportation
   
154.234   Expiration of zoning permit
   
154.235   Certificate of compliance
   
154.236   Temporary certificate of compliance
   
154.237   Record of certificates of compliance
   
154.238   Failure to obtain a zoning permit or certificate of compliance
   
154.239   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans,
permits and certificates
   
154.240   Complaints regarding violations
   
154.241   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
154.242   General
   
154.243   Initiation of zoning amendments
   
154.244   Contents of application
   
154.245   Transmittal to Planning Commission
   
154.246   Submission to the director of the Ohio Department of Transportation
   
154.247   Public hearing by Planning Commission
   
154.248   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
154.249   Notice to property owners by Planning Commission
   
154.250   Recommendations by Planning Commission
   
154.251   Public hearing by Village Council
   
154.252   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
154.253   Notice to property owners by Village Council
   
154.254   Action by Village Council
   
154.255   Effective date and referendum
   
154.256   Part-time Zoning Administrator
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.270   Purpose
   
154.271   Organization and procedure
   
154.272   Governing guidelines
   
154.273   Jurisdiction and powers
   
154.274   Appeals
   
154.275   Fees
   
154.276   Stay of proceedings
   
154.277   Variances
   
154.278   Application and standards for variances
   
154.279   Guidelines for granting variances
   
154.280   Conditions imposed by the Board
   
154.281   Lapses of variances
   
154.282   Public hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.283   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
154.284   Notice
   
154.285   Procedure and requirement for approval of conditional uses
   
154.286   Contents of application for conditional use permit
   
154.287   General standards applicable to all conditional uses
   
154.288   Supplementary conditions and safeguards
   
154.289   Public hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
154.290   Notice of public hearing in newspaper
   
154.291   Notice
   
154.292   Expiration of conditional use permit
   
154.293   Decisions of the Board
   
154.294   Duties of Zoning Administrator, Zoning Board of Appeals, Village
Council and courts on matters of appeal
   
154.295   Appeal to courts
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the Zoning Chapter of the Village of
Marblehead.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   In order to promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general
welfare; to conserve and protect property and property values; to secure the
most appropriate and compatible use of land; and to facilitate adequate but
economical provision of public improvements, the Village Council divides the
incorporated area of the village into districts or zones.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.003 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense and words in
the singular number include the plural number and vice versa.
   (B)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
   (C)   The words USED for includes designed for and vice versa.
   (D)   The word DWELLING includes the word residence.
   (E)   The word LOT includes the words plot or parcel.
   (F)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement and the word MAY is a
permissive requirement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure detached from a principal
building on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal building or use. Any structure designed or intended to be used for
transporting materials on the highway shall not be used as an accessory
building. Examples of accessory buildings or uses are, but not limited to:
garages, fences, storage sheds, docks, decks, parking lots, signs, pools,
cabanas, ramadas, awnings, carports, steps, ramps, piers, pilings, and the
like. Tree houses that are less than 200 square feet and do not have any
construction requiring location on or in the ground are exempt from the
permitting process.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and
located on the same lot with such principal use.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment which utilizes 15% or more of its retail
selling area for the purpose of retail sales or rental, or for the purpose of
display by coin or slug-operated, or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices, or both, books, magazines, other periodicals films,
tapes and cassettes which are distinguished by their emphasis on adult
materials as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar establishment in
which persons appear in a state of nudity in the performance of their duties.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. An adult book store, adult cabaret, adult
health club, adult motion picture theater, adult drive-in motion picture
theater or an adult only entertainment establishment as further defined in this
section.
   ADULT HEALTH CLUB. Any establishment that provides equipment and facilities
for exercising and improving physical fitness where employees and/or patrons
appear in a state of nudity.
   ADULT MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, slide, transparency, figure, image, description, motion picture film,
phonographic record of tape, other tangible thing, or any service, capable of
arousing interest through sight, sound or touch, and:
      (1)   Which material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter displaying, describing or representing sexual activity, masturbation,
sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality or human bodily functions of elimination;
or
      (2)   Which service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality or human
bodily functions of elimination.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open air drive-in theater which is
regularly used or utilizes 15% or more of its total viewing time, for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or related to adult material as defined in this section.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed motion picture theater which is
regularly used or utilizes 15% or more of its total viewing time, for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or related to adult material as defined in this section.
   ADULT ONLY ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment where the patron
directly or indirectly is charged a fee where the establishment features
entertainment or services which constitute adult material as defined in this
section, or which features exhibitions, dance routines or gyration choreography
of persons totally nude, topless, bottomless or strippers, male or female
impersonators or similar entertainment of services which constitute adult
material.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and
animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary uses for packing, treating and
storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
   AIRPORT. Any landing area and all necessary appurtenances designed, used or
intended to be used for the landing and taking off of aircraft.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or easement that
provides secondary access for the special accommodation of abutting property.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change in either the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, and girders or in the
dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls or the moving of a
building or structure from one location to another.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS. Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios, decks and similar architectural
projections shall be considered part of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required front, side or rear yard or unless
otherwise specified herein.
   BASEMENT. Portion of a dwelling or building partly underground. A BASEMENT
shall be counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement if the
vertical distance between the ceiling and the average level of the adjoining
ground is more than five feet or if used for business or dwelling purposes.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner occupied, single-family residential dwelling
in which rooms are rented to paying guests on an overnight basis and breakfast
only is provided; the entire service to be included in one stated price.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio.
   BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE or DORMITORY. A building or
part thereof, other than a hotel, motel, or restaurant where meals and/or
lodging are provided for compensation, for three or more unrelated persons,
where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in individual rooms.
   BOAT STORAGE. Any building or lot designed, adapted or used by the property
owner for the storage of more than three boats, boat trailers and/or boat
cradles for periods in excess of seven consecutive days.
   BOTTOMLESS. Less than full opaque covering of male or female genitals, pubic
area or buttocks.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattel.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The horizontal area measured within the outside of the
exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on
a lot, exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of that face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered porches
whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not include steps.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which it is located.
   BUSINESS. The use of lands or buildings for the purchase, sale or exchange
of goods and services; for the purpose of maintaining offices, recreational or
amusement enterprises for profit.
   CABINS/COTTAGES. Detached buildings used for recreation purposes and not
meant to be rented by the same occupants for long term.
   CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground upon which two or more campsites are located,
established or maintained for occupancy by camping units of the general public
as temporary living quarters for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER.
      (1)   Any place in which child day-care is provided, with or without
compensation, for 13 or more children at any one time, or any place that is not
the permanent residence of the licensee or administrator in which child day-
care is provided, with or without compensation, for seven to 12 children at any
one time.
      (2)   In counting children for purposes of this definition, any children
under six years of age who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee
and who are on the premises shall be counted.
         (a)   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. A permanent residence of the
administrator in which child day-care is provided for four to 12 children at
any one time, if four or more children are under two years of age. In counting
children for the purposes of this definition, any children under six years of
age who are related to a licensee, administrator or employee and who are on the
premises of the Type A home shall be counted. The term TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE
HOME does not include a residence in which the needs of children are
administered to, if all such children are siblings of the same immediate family
and the residence is their home.
         (b)   TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. A permanent residence of the
provider in which child day-care or child day-care services are provided for
one to six children at one time and in which no more than three children may be
under two years of age at any one time. In counting children for the purposes
of this definition, any children under six years of age who are related to the
provider and are on the premises of the Type B home shall be counted. The term
TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME does not include a residence in which the needs of
children are administered to, if all such children are siblings of the same
immediate family and the residence is their home.
   CHURCHES. A building, structure or groups of buildings or structures, which
by design and construction are primarily intended for the conducting of
organized religious services and accessory uses associated therewith.
   COLLOCATION. The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than
one wireless telecommunications provider.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Marblehead, Ohio.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land that is of such a nature that its unlimited
operation could be detrimental to the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of residents in the surrounding area or to the property or property
values, and on which the public has reserved the right to permit the use,
subject to certain general and specific conditions stated in the chapter which
are deemed necessary to protect the permitted uses of other affected
properties.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Inspector upon
approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals to allow a use other than a principally
permitted use to be established within the district.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building or group of buildings, in which units are owned
individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional basis.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, which is bounded on or more sides by the walls of such building.
   COURT, INNER. A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of a building,
or by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable.
   COURT, OUTER. A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of a building,
or by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are allowable, with one side
or end open to a street, driveway, alley or yard.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A building or portion thereof where food and/or
beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all or a
significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place
outside the confines of the building, often in a motor vehicle on the side.
   DRIVE-THRU BUSINESS. An establishment which by design, physical facilities,
service or by packaging procedures encourages or permits customers to receive
services or obtain goods while remaining in their motor vehicles.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for permanent
residential occupancy.
   DWELLING, GROUP. A group of two or more one-family, two-family or multiple
dwellings occupying a lot in one ownership and having any yard in common.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building consisting of three or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively
for permanent residential occupancy by one family, and separated from other
dwelling units by open space.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two dwelling units which may
be either attached side by side or one above the other.
   DWELLING, UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing complete
housekeeping facilities for one family.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood, adoption, marriage or guardianship, no
such family shall contain over five persons.
   FARM. Any parcel of land containing at least five acres which is used for
the raising of agricultural products, livestock, poultry, and dairy products.
It includes necessary farm structures and the storage of equipment used,
subject however, to applicable regulations. It excludes the raising of fur-
bearing animals, riding academies, liveries, boarding stables or dog kennels.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
   FENCE AND WALL RESTRICTIONS IN FRONT YARDS. In any required front yard, no
fence or wall shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such
yard above the height of two and one-half feet, and no hedge or other
vegetation shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such yard
between the height of two and one-half and ten feet, except as otherwise
permitted in the screening requirements of the chapter.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building or buildings, measured from the exterior walls, or from the
centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading space for motor vehicles, or any space where the floor-
to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a principal
building for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles, travel trailers,
and/or boats of the occupants of the premises and wherein:
      (1)   Not more than one space is rented for parking to persons not
residents on the premises;
      (2)   Not more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling unit is parked or
stored; and
      (3)   The commercial vehicle permitted does not exceed two tons capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garages other than a private garage, available to the
public, operated for gain, and which is used for storage, repair, rental,
greasing, washing, servicing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other
motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A principal or accessory building other than a private
garage, used for the parking or temporary storage of passenger automobiles and
in which no service shall be provided for remuneration.
   GASOLINE STATION. Any area of land, including structures thereon, that is
used for the sale of gasoline or any other motor vehicle fuel and oil and other
lubricating substances, including any sale of motor vehicle accessories, and
which may or may not include facilities for lubricating, washing or otherwise
servicing motor vehicles, but not including painting thereof by any means.
   GRADE, PRE-DEVELOPMENT. The grade that existed at the time of application
for a building or demolition permit, or the grade necessary to implement an
approved subdivision plan. Determination of grade is by examination of the
contour lines on the property as they extend to the adjoining properties and to
the street. Fill cannot be added to the pre-development grade for the purpose
of achieving a building height higher than that allowed in the district.
   GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on
the same premises with the main building, for use by temporary, non-paying
guests of the occupants of the premises; such quarters are not to be rented or
otherwise used as a separate dwelling. The floor area of a GUEST HOUSE shall
not be less than 400 square feet nor more than 1,000 square feet.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING.Height of a building is measured from the average elevation
of the approved finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof, regardless of roof type.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on by the occupant of a dwelling as a
secondary use of that dwelling or in a structure accessory to the dwelling
provided that:
      (1)   No person is employed other than residents of the dwelling;
      (2)   If the HOME OCCUPATION is conducted in the dwelling, then the floor
area devoted to such occupation shall not exceed 25% of the ground floor area
of the dwelling;
      (3)   If the HOME OCCUPATION is conducted in the structure accessory to
the dwelling, then the floor area devoted to such occupation shall not exceed
600 square feet;
      (4)   Such use is not objectionable due to noise, hours of operation,
hazards or noxious processes;
      (5)   There is neither regular nor frequent traffic to the property by
the public for business or professional purposes;
      (6)   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of
materials and no other exterior indication of the home occupation or variation
from the residential character of the dwelling or the structure accessory to
the dwelling; and
      (7)   An exterior sign is subject to the requirements of Sign Ordinance
8, 1991.
   HOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to
the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
guests for a period of 30 days or less, in which one or more rooms are used for
the accommodation, whether the rooms are in one or several structures. The term
“hotel” may also include inns, bed and breakfast inns, motels, cabins and
condominiums even though they may not use the term “hotel”.
   INDUSTRIAL UNIT, APPROVED. A dwelling unit constructed off-site and that is
certified by the Ohio Department of Industrial Relations as meeting the
requirements of the Ohio Basic Building Code.
   INDUSTRIAL UNIT, UNAPPROVED. A dwelling unit constructed off-site and does
not meet the requirements of the Ohio Basic Building Code as determined by the
Ohio Department of Industrial Relations.
   JUNK. Worn-out, castoff, stored or discarded articles or material which is
or may be salvaged for reuse, resale, reduction or similar disposition, or
which is possessed, transported, owned, collected, accumulated, dismantled or
assorted for the forementioned purposes. Any article or material which,
unaltered or unchanged, and without further reconditioning can be used for its
original purpose as readily as when new, shall not be considered JUNK.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 200 square feet and/or 1,200 cubic feet of
the area of any lot, whether inside a building, or the use of any portion of
that half of any lot that joins any street, for the storage, keeping or
abandonment of junk, of scrap materials, or the dismantling, demolition or
abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more domesticated animals, more
than four months of age, are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold.
   LATTICE TOWER. A support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and
cross braces forming a triangular or square structure which often tapers from
the foundation to the top.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth used for the loading or
unloading of commercial vehicles.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a principal
structure or group of structures and accessory structures together with such
yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by the Zoning
Chapter and having not less than the minimum required frontage upon an improved
public street or an approved private street, either shown and identified by lot
number of a plat of record, or considered as a unit of property and described
by metes and bounds.
      (2)   Such lot may consist of:
         (a)   Single lot of record;
         (b)   Portion of a lot of record; or
         (c)   Combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersections,
or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The ratio of the sum of the ground floor area of all
buildings/structures on a lot to the horizontally projected area of the lot,
expressed as a percentage.
   LOT, DEPTH. A mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line, measured in a general direction parallel with its side lot
lines. Unless otherwise specified, length shall be measured from the street
right-of-way line. Lot length and LOT DEPTH have the same meaning.
   LOT FRONTAGE. Distance between lot lines measured from the point where one
lot line intersects the principle right-of-way for that lot directly to the
point where the other lot line intersects the principle right-of-way for that
lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. Any line dividing one lot from another.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The area of a lot computed exclusive of any portion of
the right-of-way of any public or private street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the county recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
   LOT, WIDTH. The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at
right angles to its depth. The WIDTH OF LOTS fronting on a cul-de-sac shall be
the chord distance between side lot lines for the curve coinciding with the
required building setback.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Any non-self propelled vehicle, transportable in one or
more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in
width, and 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used for human habitation with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning
and electrical systems contained therein. Calculations used to determine the
number of square feet in a structure are based on the structure's exterior
dimensions at the largest horizontal projections when erected on site. These
dimensions include all expandable rooms, cabinets and outer projections
containing interior space, but do not include bay windows.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any tract of land upon which three or more
manufactured homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and includes any roadways, buildings, structures, vehicles or
enclosures used/intended for use as part of the facilities of the park. A tract
of land which is subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or rented,
but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of manufactured homes
on the lots is not a MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more
manufactured homes are parked thereon if the roadways are dedicated to the
local government authority.
   MARINA. A boat basin that has docks or moorings for seven or more watercraft
as defined in Ohio R.C. § 1547.01. MARINA does not include docks or moorings
contiguous to a private residence and used only by the occupant of that
residence and his or her non-paying guests.
   MINI STORAGE BUILDING. A building not over 20 feet high measured to the
peak, providing one or more separate storage spaces of not over 300 square feet
each, with individual outside access or rental to the public for storage of
non-hazardous personal goods.
   MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MODULAR BUILDINGS AND MODULAR HOMES. Sectional prefabricated dwelling units
that consist of multiple modules or sections which are manufactured in a remote
facility and then delivered to their intended site of use. The modules are
assembled into a single residential building using either a crane or trucks.
Modular buildings are considerably different from mobile homes. Off-frame
modular dwellings differ from mobile homes largely in their absence of axles or
a frame, meaning that they are typically transported to their site by means of
flat-bed trucks.
   MONOPOLE. A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to the foundation.
   MOTEL, HOTEL and APARTMENT HOTEL. A building in which lodging, or boarding
and lodging, are provided and offered to the public for compensation. As such,
it is open to the public in contradistinction to a boarding house, rooming
house, lodging house or dormitory which is herein separately defined.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP. A building, or portion of building, arranged,
intended or designed to be used for making repairs to motor vehicles.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land or building lawfully
existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter or amendment thereto and
which does not conform to the regulations of the district or zone in which it
is situated.
   NUDE or NUDITY. The showing, representation or depiction of human male or
female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than full, opaque covering of
any portion thereof, or female breast(s) with less than a full, opaque covering
of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. See CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER.
   NURSING HOME. An extended or intermediate care facility licensed or approved
to provide full- time convalescent or chronic care to individuals who, by
reason of advanced age, chronic illness or infirmity are unable to care for
themselves.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. Any card, paper, metal, painted surface, glass,
wooden, plastic stone or other sign of any kind of character whatsoever, placed
for outdoor advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush,
rock, post, fence, building, structure or other thing whatsoever. The term
PLACES shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting, printing,
tacking, mailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise fastening, affixing or
making visible in any manner whatsoever.
   PARKING LOT. An off-street, ground level area, usually surfaced and
improved, for the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. An off-street space available for the parking of one motor
vehicle with room for opening the doors on both sides together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room.
   PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES. Motor vehicles or trailers of any
kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked or stored on
any residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed buildings.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, unit of
government or any other that acts as a unit.
   POOLS, PRIVATE SWIMMING. A permanent structure, pond or other body of water,
either above or below the surface of the ground, for the purpose of holding
water for recreation, landscaping, drainage or therapeutic purposes. This
definition shall not apply to wading pools or other similar structures less
than 18 inches in depth and less than 20 square feet in size or temporary or
portable in nature.
   PRE-DEVELOPMENT GRADE. The grade that existed at the time of application for
a building or demolition permit, or the grade necessary to implement an
approved subdivision plan. Determination of grade is by examination of the
contour lines on the property as they extend to the adjoining properties and to
the street. Fill can not be added to the pre-development grade for the purpose
of achieving a building height higher than 35 feet.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office used by members and the necessary personnel
of a recognized profession including but not limited to, architects, dentists,
engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, realty agents, insurance agents and
brokers.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings
and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
   QUASIPUBLIC USE. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an education, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure that is designed and
constructed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses and is classed as follows:
      (1)   FIFTH WHEEL TRAILER. A vehicle that is of such size and weight as
to be movable without a special highway permit, that has a gross trailer area
of 400 square feet or less, that is constructed with a raised forward section
that allows a bi-level floor plan, and that is designed to be towed by a
vehicle equipped with a fifth-wheel hitch ordinarily installed in the bed of a
truck.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled recreational vehicle that is
constructed with permanently installed facilities for cold storage, cooking and
consuming of food, and for sleeping.
      (3)   PARK TRAILER. A vehicle that is commonly known as a park model
recreational vehicle, meets the American National Standard Institute Standard
A119.5 (1988) for park trailers, is built on a single chassis, has a gross
trailer area of 400 square feet or less when set up, is designed for seasonal
or temporary living quarters, and may be connected to utilities necessary for
the operation of installed features and appliances.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A non-self propelled recreational vehicle that does
not exceed an overall length of 35 feet, exclusive of bumper and tongue or
coupling, and includes a tent-type fold-out camping trailer as defined in Ohio
R.C. § 4517.01.
      (5)   TRUCK CAMPER. A non-self propelled recreational vehicle that does
not have wheels for road use and is designed to be placed upon and attached to
a motor vehicle. TRUCK CAMPER does not include truck covers that consist of
walls and a roof, but do not have floors and facilities enabling them to be
used as a dwelling.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink for sale to the general
public is prepared, served and consumed within the principal building or an
attached outside patio/deck area.
   SERVICE STATION. See GASOLINE STATION.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by this chapter, generally parallel with
and measured from the edge of the road right-of-way or other lot lines,
defining the limits of the yards in which location of buildings or structures
may be restricted.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of the human male or female genitals, when
in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SIGN. Any letters, pictorial representation, symbol, flag, emblem,
illuminated or animated device, displayed in any manner whatsoever, which
directs attention of persons to any object, subject, place, person, activity,
product, service, institution, organization or business.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet above
the floor of such story.
   STREET. A right-of-way that is established by record to provide the
principal means of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that required location on or in
the ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The technology which enables information to be exchanged
through the transmission of voice, video or data signals by means of electrical
or electromagnetic systems.
   TOPLESS. The showing of a female breast with less than a full opaque
covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the regulations in this
chapter.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the inside storage of goods and
materials.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT SHELTER. A structure in which the
electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications
facility is housed.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A facility consisting of the equipment
and structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a
mobile radio communications source and transmitting those signals to a central
switching computer which connects the mobile unit with the land-based telephone
lines.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure intended to support equipment
used to transmit and/or receive telecommunications signals including monopoles,
guyed and lattice construction steel structures.
   YARD. An unoccupied space open to the sky, on the same level with a building
or structure.
   YARD, FRONT.
      (1)   An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street right-of-
way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the
lot.
      (2)   The depth of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the front
line of the building and the street side.
      (3)   Covered porches whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered
as part of the main building and shall not project into a required FRONT YARD.
   YARD, REAR.
      (1)   An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the
lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
      (2)   The depth of the REAR YARD shall be measured between the rear line
of the lot, or the centerline of the alley, if there be an alley, and the rear
line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main or
accessory building situated between the building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
   ZONING CHAPTER. The officially, adopted zoning regulations as contained in
the codified ordinances of the Village of Marblehead.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Am. Ord. 18, 2008, passed 12-11-
2008; Am. Ord. 7, 2011, passed 6-23-2011; Am. Ord. 6, 2015, passed 6-10-2015)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.015 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The general regulations apply to all districts, unless otherwise noted
herein.
   (B)   Where requirements of a general regulation and a district regulation
differ, the more restrictive requirement shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.016 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, designed or
arranged for any purpose other than that specifically permitted in the district
in which the building or land is located except as hereinafter specified.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.017 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling or conversion of any building
so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or families, shall
be permitted only within a district in which a new building for similar
occupancy would be permitted under this Zoning Chapter, and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such a district, with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards and off-street
parking.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.018 GENERAL LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   No parcel of land shall hereafter be so reduced or divided so as to provide
less than the minimum lot size required in the district in which such land is
situated.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.019 GENERAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the required general yard requirements for front and
rear setbacks set forth in each zoning district, the following shall apply:
      (1)   A lot that has existing dwellings within 400 feet on lots to either
side, the required front and rear yard setback shall be the average of the two
nearest dwellings. In the event that only the lot on one side has a dwelling
within 400 feet, the required front and rear yard setback shall be the same as
the existing dwelling. In the event there are no dwellings within 400 feet on
lots to either side, the front and rear yard setback shall be as stated in that
district.
      (2)   A lot in which the rear yard is adjacent and contiguous to Lake
Erie or Sandusky Bay that has existing dwellings within 400 feet on lots to
either side, the required front and rear yard setback shall be the average of
the two nearest dwellings. In the event that only the lot on one side has a
dwelling within 400 feet, the required front and rear yard setback shall be the
same as the existing dwelling. In the event there are no dwellings within 400
feet on lots to either side, the rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 60
feet.
   (B)   Generally. Except as herein provided, every required yard shall be
open and unobstructed and shall not be reduced or diminished in area so as to
be smaller than prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   Yard measurements.
      (1)   The minimum front yard depth shall be measured on the perpendicular
from the street right- of-way line to the building setback line.
      (2)   The minimum side yard width and rear yard depth shall be measured
on the perpendicular from the lot lines to the nearest point of the principal
building.
      (3)   (a)   Corner lots shall comply with the minimum front yard depths
on both streets.
         (b)   Double fronting lots shall comply with the minimum front yard
depths on both streets.
   (D)   Yard for single building.
      (1)   No required yard or other open space around one building shall be
considered as a yard or open space for any other building.
      (2)   No required yard or other required open space on an adjoining lot
shall be considered as providing the yard or open space on the lot whereon a
building is to be erected or established.
   (E)   Clear view of intersecting streets. In all zones which require a front
yard, no obstruction in excess of two feet in height shall be placed on any
comer lot within the triangular area formed by the street right-of-way lines or
the projected point of intersection of the street right-of-way lines and a line
connecting points 25 feet from the intersection of the street right-of-way
lines or the projected point.
   (F)   Yard exceptions.
      (1)   Fences, hedges and walls.
         (a)   Generally. In all districts, except industrial and commercial,
fences, hedges and walls may be constructed to a maximum height of six feet in
any required side or rear yard beginning at the building lot line and to a
height of two and one-half feet in any required yard abutting a street.
         (b)   Facing. The finished surfaces of any fence shall face toward
adjacent properties and street frontage.
      (2)   Accessory buildings. All accessory buildings shall be subject to
the following regulations and shall be permitted only on lots with a principal
building already substantially completed.
         (a)   1.   In residential or business districts one-story detached
garages or other accessory buildings may be located a minimum of five feet from
side and rear property lines and a minimum of ten feet to the back of the
principal building. Accessory buildings shall be located in the rear yard
except for garages which may be located in the rear or side yard.
            2.   The maximum floor area permitted for the accessory building
may not exceed 1,200 square feet or 50% of the floor area contained within the
residential principal dwelling or 50% of the ground floor area of a commercial
principal building, whichever is larger.
            3.   Such buildings shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
         (b)   For lots which have frontage on the waters of Sandusky Bay or
Lake Erie (lake lots), the following shall apply:
            1.   Accessory buildings may be located in the front, rear or side
yards.
            2.   For a corner lot, the front yard setback shall be met for both
streets.
            3.   Such buildings shall be no closer than 60 feet to the rear
(water side) lot line, and no closer than five feet to the main building. The
minimum front yard (road side) setback shall be 35 feet in Residential
Districts and 25 feet in the Business District, and the minimum side yard
setback of the district in which the lot is located shall be met.
            4.   The accessory structure shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
            5.   The accessory structure shall not occupy more than the
equivalent of two-thirds of the living space of the residential principal
dwelling or two-thirds of the ground floor area of a commercial principal
building, but shall not exceed 850 square feet.
      (3)   Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features.
         (a)   Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features,
including railings, which do not extend more than two feet above the level of
the ground adjoining the first story, may project into a required side yard,
provided these projections be at least two feet from the adjacent lot line.
         (b)   The ordinary projections of chimneys or flues are permitted into
the required side and front yards.
      (4)   Use of front yard. Front yards in all districts shall be
appropriately landscaped.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Am. Ord. 7, 2011, passed 6-23-
2011; Am. Ord. 6, 2015, passed 6-10-2015; Am. Ord. 9, 2017, passed 8-23-2017;
Am. Ord. 8-2018, passed 10-24-2018) Penalty, see  §
154.999
§ 154.020 BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Other than that permitted by the provisions of this chapter
no building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered:
      (1)   To exceed the maximum height;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear, front or side yards than are
specified herein for the district in which such building is located.
   (B)   Principal building.
      (1)   No more than one principal building shall be permitted on any one
lot unless otherwise specifically stated in the Zoning Chapter.
      (2)   More than one townhouse, multi-family, commercial or industrial
building is permitted on one lot; however, the building shall be considered as
one building for the purpose of determining front, side and rear yard
requirements.
      (3)   No principal building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut
on at least one street by its full frontage.
   (C)   Temporary uses.
      (1)   The following regulations are necessary to govern certain uses
which are of a non- permanent nature. For such uses requiring temporary zoning
permits, at least seven days before the instigation of such use, an application
for a zoning permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator, which shall
contain a graphic description of the property to be used, a description of the
proposed use, and a site plan, with sufficient information to determine the
yard, setback, parking and sanitary facility requirements for the proposed
temporary use.
      (2)   The following uses are deemed to be temporary uses and shall be
subject to the specified regulations and time limits which follow, as well as
the regulations of any district in which they are located:
         (a)   Real estate sales offices, which shall contain no living
accommodations, shall be permitted within any district for any new subdivision
for a period of one year, except that 2 six-month extensions may be granted if
conditions warrant. Such offices shall be removed upon the completion of the
sales of the lots therein, or upon the expiration of the zoning permit,
whichever occurs first.
         (b)   Temporary buildings, offices, and equipment and storage
facilities required in conjunction with construction activity may be permitted
within any district for a period of one year, except that six-month extensions
may be granted if construction is substantially underway. Such uses shall be
removed immediately upon completion of the construction or upon expiration of
the zoning permit, whichever occurs first.
         (c)   Temporary sales and services may be permitted within parking
areas within any business district. A zoning permit valid for a period not to
exceed four consecutive days shall only be issued three times within any 12
month period to any individual or organization. The application for the
temporary zoning permit shall be accompanied by written permission of the
property owners, and shall be prominently displayed at the site. The Zoning
Administrator shall not issue a permit for such temporary use if he or she
determines that it encroaches upon more than 25% of the required parking area.
         (d)   Temporary retail sales and services, such as sales of plants,
flowers, arts and crafts, farm produce or similar items on lots other than
parking lots, including any lot on which an existing business is operating or
on which a business is vacated, may be permitted for any for-profit individuals
or organizations in any business district. A zoning permit valid for a period
not to exceed two consecutive days shall only be issued three separate times
for any particular lot within any 12 month period and not more than one permit
may be issued at the same time for any lot. The applicant must submit a current
vendor's license or transient vendor's license, and a written statement from
the property owner giving his or her permission for such use. This section
shall not be interpreted to prohibit any such use in any case where a valid
covenant or deed restriction specifically authorizes such use. In any case, the
zoning permit shall be prominently displayed at the site.
   (D)   Private swimming pools.
      (1)   Restriction. No such swimming pool shall be allowed in any
residential or business district except as an accessory use to a residence or
as a private club facility.
      (2)   Exclusive private uses. The pool is intended and is to be used
solely for the enjoyment of the occupants of the principal building of the
property on which it is located and their guests.
      (3)   Distance requirements. The pool may be located anywhere on the
premises except in required front yards, provided it shall not be located
closer than ten feet to a property line of the property on which it is located.
      (4)   Fencing. The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is
located, shall have a wall or fence of not less than four feet in height with a
gate and lock as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street or
from adjacent properties.
      (5)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate the pool area shall be so
arranged as to deflect the light away from the adjoining properties.
      (6)   Permit required. No person shall construct or install a swimming
pool or make any alterations therein or in the appurtenances thereof without
having first submitted an application and plans therefore to the Zoning
Inspector.
   (E)   Minimum living floor area per single-family dwelling units.
      (1)   One-story buildings.
         (a)   The minimum for a single-family dwelling without a basement
shall be 900 square feet of living area.
         (b)   The minimum with a basement shall be 900 square feet of first
floor living area.
      (2)   One and one-half story buildings. The minimum for a single-family
dwelling shall be 750 square feet of first floor living area, and a total of
not less than 1,150 square feet of living area on both floors, excluding
basements.
      (3)   Two-story buildings. The minimum for single-family dwelling shall
be 750 square feet of first floor living area, and a total of not less than
1,100 square feet of living space area on both floors, excluding basements.
      (4)   Multi-level buildings. The minimum for a single family dwelling
shall be 1,250 square feet of living space area, with a minimum lot coverage of
900 square feet, excluding basements.
   (F)   Siting requirements - approved industrial units and site built units.
Approved industrial units and site built units shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall be installed upon and properly attached to a
foundation system that provides adequate support of the structure's vertical
and horizontal loads and transfers these and other imposed forces, without
failure, from the structure to the undisturbed ground below the frost line;
      (2)   The structure shall meet the minimum floor area requirement of §
154.020, and the structure shall have a minimum width of primary livable floor
space of 23 feet and a minimum length of 23 feet;
      (3)   The siting of the structure shall comply with all yard and setback
requirements in effect for the district for which it is proposed;
      (4)   The siting of the structure shall comply with all parking
requirements in effect for the district for which it is proposed; and
      (5)   The structure shall conform to all other regulations in effect for
the district in which it is located.
   (G)   Siting requirements - unapproved industrial units. Unapproved
industrial units proposed to be located in the Residential, Business, or
Institutional Districts shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall bear a label certifying that the unit is built
in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction Safety
Standards Act of 1974, which became effective June 15, 1976;
      (2)   The structure shall be installed upon and properly attached to a
foundation system that provides adequate support of the structure's vertical
and horizontal loads and transfers these and other imposed forces, without
failure, from the structure to the undisturbed ground below the frost line;
      (3)   All hitches, axles, wheels and conveyance mechanisms shall be
removed from the structure;
      (4)   The structure shall meet the minimum living floor area requirements
of §
154.020, and the structure shall have a minimum width of primary livable floor
space of 23 feet and a minimum length of 23 feet;
      (5)   The siting of the structure shall comply with all yard and setback
requirements in effect for the district for which it is proposed;
      (6)   The siting of the structure shall comply with all parking
requirements in effect for the district for which it is proposed; and
      (7)   The structure shall conform to all other regulations in effect for
the district in which it is located.
   (H)   Zoning of unapproved industrial units. Unapproved industrial units
which were built prior to enactment of the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, which became effective June 15,
1976, or built subsequent to such Act but not certifiable to compliance with
it, shall be permitted only in approved manufactured home parks.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.021 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming buildings.
      (1)   The lawful use of any building which does not conform to these
regulations, whether by original adoption or by subsequent amendment, may be
continued after such adoption or amendment, under the conditions herein
specified.
      (2)   An addition to, enlargement or expansion of any such nonconforming
building may be permitted provided such addition, enlargement or expansion
complies with all height, area, parking, setback and other requirements of the
district in which it is located, and that the total aggregate floor area of
such addition or additions does not exceed 20% of the floor area in such
building at the time it becomes nonconforming.
   (B)   Nonconforming use of a building.
      (1)   The nonconforming use of a building may be changed to a use of the
same or more restricted classifications but shall not thereafter be changed
back to a less restrictive use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use of the building, or portion thereof, which is
discontinued for a period of two years or more, shall not thereafter be
occupied except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (C)   Nonconforming use of the land.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of open land, where no primary building is
involved may be continued from the effective date of this chapter or any
subsequent amendment.
      (2)   A nonconforming use of the land shall not be expanded or extended
into any other portion of the lot or adjoining property.
      (3)   A nonconforming use of the land or buildings may be changed to a
use of the same or more restricted classifications but shall not thereafter be
changed back to a less restrictive use.
   (D)   Nonconforming regulations. Any conforming or nonconforming use, that
does not conform to the regulations herein pertaining to yard requirements, lot
requirements, off-street parking, height regulations and other regulations,
shall be permitted to continue under such nonconforming condition; except that
any enlargement, change of use or addition shall not cause the aggregate use to
violate the provisions of this chapter beyond such existing nonconformance
which exists at the time of adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
amendment.
   (E)   Nonconformance as to lot area, width and depth. Any lot of record,
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, or any subsequent amendment,
where the required lot area, width and/or depth do not meet the regulations
herein, may be occupied by any use permitted in the zoning district in which
the property is located; provided that yard, coverage and all other
requirements are met; and provided that any contiguous land in common ownership
be required to be used to meet the district lot area, width and depth
requirements.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 6, 2015, passed 6-10-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.022 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening or buffering in compliance with the provisions of this
section shall be provided for any permitted or conditionally permitted non-
residential uses which abut any residential area in addition to setback and
yard requirements provided elsewhere in the chapter.
   (B)   Applicants for a zoning permit may request a variance from yard or
setback requirements in conjunction with a plan for screening, which the Board
of Zoning Appeals may consider by weighing the relationship of the proposed
screening plan and the requested dimensional variance with respect to their
joint impact upon neighboring properties.
   (C)   Such requested variance for a conditionally permitted use shall be
incorporated in the conditional use procedure specified within this chapter.
   (D)   The following provisions shall apply with respect to screening.
      (1)   Screening shall be provided for one or more of the following
purposes:
         (a)   A visual barrier to partially or completely obstruct the view of
structures or activities;
         (b)   An acoustic screen to aid in absorbing or deflecting noise; and/
or
         (c)   A physical barrier to contain debris and litter.
      (2)   Screening shall consist of one of the following, or a combination
of two or more, as determined by the Zoning Administrator or Board of Zoning
Appeals, in the event of an appeal, variance, or conditional use:
         (a)   A solid masonry wall;
         (b)   A solidly constructed decorative fence;
         (c)   A louvered fence;
         (d)   Dense vegetative plantings; and/or
         (e)   A landscaped mounding.
      (3)   Height of screening shall be in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Visual screening walls, fences, plantings or mounds shall be a
minimum of five and one-half feet high in order to accomplish the desired
screening effect, except in required front yards where maximum height shall be
not greater than two and one-half feet. Plantings shall be a minimum of four
feet in height at the time of planting; and
         (b)   A dense vegetative planting with a minimum height of four feet
at planting and a mature height of at least five and one-half feet, or a
solidly constructed decorative fence, shall be permanently maintained along the
mutual boundary of an accessory parking area and adjacent land zoned for
residential uses, except for the portion of such boundary located within a
required front yard.
      (4)   Whenever required screening is adjacent to parking areas or
driveways, such screening shall be protected by bumper blocks, posts or curbing
to avoid damage by vehicles.
      (5)   All screening shall be trimmed, maintained in good condition, and
free of advertising or other signs, except for directional signs and other
signs for the efficient flow of vehicles.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.023 ANNEXATION.
   (A)   All land annexed to the village subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter shall remain subject to the previous township zoning district
regulations until such time as the official zoning map is amended according to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All land annexed to the village which, prior to annexation, is not
subject to township zoning shall remain unzoned until the official zoning map
is amended according to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 154.035 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to create districts of such numbers and
character necessary to achieve compatibility of uses within the Village of
Marblehead and to provide opportunities for community growth.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.036 DISTRICTS.
   The village is hereby divided into the following districts:
 
Residential - 1 District
Residential - 2 District
Residential - Johnson's Island District
Business District
Manufacturing District
Institutional District
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.037 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts are hereby established as shown on a map
entitled Marblehead Zoning Map: 1998, which map together with all notations,
amendments, references and other information shown thereon is hereby made part
of this Zoning Chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.038 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
center line of streets or highways, street lines or highway lines such
centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be considered to
be such boundaries;
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries;
   (C)   (1)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerline or street lines of streets, or the
center lines of right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall
be construed as being parallel thereto and of such distance therefrom as
indicated on the zoning map.
      (2)   If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the
use of the scale shown on the zoning map;
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located midway between the main tracks of the
railroad line;
   (E)   Where the boundary of a district follows a stream, lake or other body
of water, the boundary line of the body of water shall be deemed to be the
boundary of the zoning district unless otherwise indicated; and
   (F)   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map
accompanying and made a part of this Zoning Chapter shall be determined by
dimension notes on the map, or by the use of the scale appearing on the map.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.039 PROHIBITION AGAINST SHORT TERM RENTAL.
   Except in the Business District or as a conditionally permitted Bed and
Breakfast as defined in §
154.051, no dwelling unit, structure or other lodging unit shall be rented,
leased, or otherwise let to any individual, corporation or other entity for
compensation as and for lodging, sleeping or other overnight accommodation for
less than 30 consecutive days in any zoning classification. Refer to
Chapter 37 of the Village of Marblehead Code of Ordinances for regulations
governing short-term transient rental.
(Ord. 7, 2009, passed 4-9-2009)
RESIDENTIAL - 1 DISTRICT
§ 154.050 PERMITTED USES.
   After obtaining a valid zoning permit, in accordance with §§
154.230 et seq., the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Public school, elementary and high, and private school having a
curriculum similar to a public school; and
   (C)   Accessory building and use.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.051 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   In the Residential - 1 District, the following uses shall be classified as
conditionally permitted uses and may be permitted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, subject to the requirements of §§
154.270 et seq. and the following conditions:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast inns. Conditions for bed and breakfast inns.
      (1)   The inn must be owner operated and be the principal residence of
the owner and occupied by the owner.
      (2)   One individual not residing in the inn may be employed in the
operation of the inn.
      (3)   No more than four rooms may be offered for rent.
      (4)   Each room rented shall contain a minimum of 100 square feet. No
rented room shall have independent outside entrance (emergency fire exits are
permitted).
      (5)   Neither any rented room nor the owner's dwelling space shall be
located in an accessory structure.
      (6)   No cooking facilities of any type shall be permitted in the rented
rooms.
      (7)   A minimum of one on-site parking space per room offered for rent
and two spaces for the owner shall be required.
      (8)   The home shall not change its residential appearance.
   (B)   Parks and playgrounds. Conditions for parks and playgrounds.
      (1)   Setback requirements for all buildings and accessory structures
shall be 75 feet from side and rear lot lines and 100 feet from all bordering
road rights-of-way.
      (2)   Setback areas on the site shall be appropriately landscaped to
maintain a park like atmosphere.
      (3)   Playground apparatus must be setback 50 feet from any bounding
street right-of-way or lot line.
      (4)   Ten parking spaces shall be provided for each acre of playground
area.
      (5)   Lighting shall be shielded from adjacent properties.
   (C)   Churches. Conditions for churches.
      (1)   A minimum lot area of one acre shall be provided.
      (2)   All buildings, including accessory buildings shall be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from the lot lines. Parking areas shall be setback a minimum
of 20 feet from the lot lines.
      (3)   Parking required is one space for each four seats.
      (4)   Lights shall be directed away from adjacent property.
      (5)   A minimum of two access points at least 70 feet center to center
shall be provided for ingress and egress to the off-street parking area. All
points of entrance or exit shall be located no closer than 100 feet from the
intersections of any street.
   (D)   Cemetery. Conditions for cemetery.
      (1)   Minimum site size is ten acres.
      (2)   All burial buildings or accessory buildings shall be setback at
least 75 feet from any street right-of-way bounding the cemetery. There shall
be two side yards and a rear yard of at least 50 feet each.
      (3)   All graves or burial lots shall be setback at least 40 feet from
any street right-of-way bounding the cemetery and at least 40 feet from the
side and rear yards.
      (4)   A minimum of two points of entry at least 200 feet between
centerlines shall be required.
   (E)   Home occupations. An occupation carried on by an occupant of a
dwelling as a secondary use of that dwelling or in a structure accessory to the
dwelling provided that:
      (1)   No person is employed other than residents of the dwelling;
      (2)   If the home occupation is conducted in the dwelling, then the floor
area devoted to such operation shall not exceed 25% of the ground floor area of
the dwelling;
      (3)   If the home occupation is conducted in the structure accessory to
the dwelling, then the floor area devoted to such operation shall not exceed
600 square feet;
      (4)   Such use is not objectionable due to noise, hours of operation,
hazards or noxious processes;
      (5)   There is neither regular nor frequent traffic to the property by
the public for business or professional purposes;
      (6)   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of
materials, and no other exterior indication of the home occupation or variation
from the residential character of the dwelling or the structure accessory to
the dwelling; and
      (7)   An exterior sign is subject to the requirements of sign §§
154.210 et seq.
   (F)   Community swimming pool.
      (1)   A community swimming pool shall be any pool constructed by an
association of property owners, for use and enjoyment by members and their
families.
      (2)   Such swimming pools shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   The pool is intended solely for and is used solely for the
enjoyment of the members and families and guests of members of the association
under whose ownership or jurisdiction the pool is operated.
         (b)   The pool and accessory structure thereto, including the area
used by the bathers, shall not be located closer than 75 feet to any property
line or easement.
         (c)   The swimming pool, its accessory facilities, and all of the area
used by the bathers shall be so walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled
access by children from the street or adjacent properties. The fence or wall
shall not be less than six feet in height and maintained in good condition with
a gate and lock.
         (d)   The area surrounding the enclosure, except for the parking
spaces, shall be suitably landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs, and trees and
maintained in good condition.
         (e)   Exterior lighting shall be so shaded or directed that it does
not cast light directly upon adjacent properties.
         (f)   Such pool facilities shall not be operated prior to 9:00 a.m. in
the morning or after 10:00 p.m. in the evening.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.052 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to a height
exceeding 35 feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.053 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The lot area shall not be less than 9,800 square feet with a lot width
of not less than 70 feet.
   (B)   No residential lot shall be less than 120 feet in depth.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 15-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.054 YARDS REQUIRED.
   The following yard requirements shall apply to all yards in the Residential
- 1 District, unless otherwise specified herein.
 
Minimum front yard 50 Feet
Minimum rear yard  40 Feet
Minimum side yard  15 Feet, both sides
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 15-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.055 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of
the area of the lot.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.056 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The provisions of §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.057 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The provisions of §§
154.185 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.058 DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.059 SITING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.060 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The provisions of §§
154.230 et seq. shall be in full force and effect in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
RESIDENTIAL - 2 DISTRICT
§ 154.075 PERMITTED USES.
   After obtaining a valid zoning permit, in accordance with §§
154.230 et seq., the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Two-family dwelling;
   (C)   Public school, elementary and high, and private school having a
curriculum similar to a public school; and
   (D)   Accessory building and use.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.076 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   In the Residential - 2 District, the following uses shall be classified as
conditionally permitted uses and may be permitted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, subject to the requirements of §§
154.270 et seq. and the following conditions:
   (A)   Multiple-family dwelling. Conditions for multiple-family housing
development.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be not less than one acre.
      (2)   The minimum lot width and depth shall be no less than 150 feet.
      (3)   The minimum lot area per dwelling shall be 20,000 square feet for
the first unit and 12,000 square feet for each additional unit.
      (4)   The minimum front, rear and side yard setbacks shall be 50 feet,
and this space shall be a non-buildable green space area.
      (5)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or converted for use as
a dwelling unless the minimum gross floor area of 750 square feet per dwelling
unit is provided.
      (6)   A STREET for the purpose of this chapter is a public way that
provides the principal means of access to a dwelling or abutting property, and
is not a right-of-way as described in §
153.080. Streets must be a minimum of 20 feet wide, with a curve radius
approved by the Planning Commission. In any case, the curve radius must allow
emergency vehicles to make all turns without the wheels leaving the road
surface.
      (7)   All accessory structures not attached to the principal structures
shall be setback a minimum of 25 feet from the principal building and not less
25 feet from a street.
      (8)   Buildings designed for living purposes shall be separated from each
other by a minimum distance of 40 feet.
      (9)   Each building shall consist of no more than four dwelling units. If
a condominium declaration is submitted at the time of permitting, each building
can consist of one through four units.
      (10)   Dwelling setback from the street shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (11)   An area of land shall be set aside for the purpose of trash and
garbage receptacles if individual pickup is not used. Such receptacle area
shall be properly screened and maintained (§
154.193).
      (12)   Each dwelling must have two off-street parking spaces.
      (13)   Driveways in a multi-family development must be a minimum of 20
feet wide, with a curve radius approved by the Planning Commission. In any
case, the curve radius must allow emergency vehicles to make all turns without
the wheels leaving the road surface.
      (14)   A multi-family housing development may be permitted on a lot of
less area or width which was recorded at the time of the adoption of this
chapter as amended, and the owner thereof owns no adjoining land, provided the
lot area per unit is complied with.
      (15)   All other requirements of the district shall be met.
   (B)   [Reserved]
   (C)   Bed and breakfast inns. See §
154.051.
   (D)   Parks and playgrounds. See §
154.051.
   (E)   Churches. See §
154.051.
   (F)   Cemetery. See §
154.051.
   (G)   Golf course. Conditions for golf course.
      (1)   All principal and accessory buildings shall be located not less
than 100 feet from the road right-of-way, and not less than 200 feet from any
property line of abutting residentially zoned property.
      (2)   Ten parking spaces per hole shall be provided in addition to one
space per 35 square feet of floor area for public assembly.
      (3)   Lighting shall be directed away from adjoining properties.
      (4)   All parking areas shall be located not less than 75 feet from any
residential district and 50 feet from the road right-of-way line.
      (5)   All access drives shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width and
constructed of a dust free material.
      (6)   Pro-shops and sale of goods incidental to the principal use shall
be permitted.
   (H)   Home occupation. See §
154.051.
   (I)   Community swimming pool. See §
154.051.
   (J)   Child day-care center/Type A family day-care home. Conditions for
child day-care center/Type A family day-care home.
      (1)   Outdoor playgrounds, tot lots, exercise areas and the like shall be
fully enclosed by a fence, the height and design which shall be approved by the
Board.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant shall submit a parking and traffic circulation
plan to the Board for approval.
         (b)   The design, location, and surface of the parking areas and
vehicular approaches shall be so subject to approval by the Board so as to
reduce congestion, promote safety and reduce the impact on the residential
character of the neighborhood.
         (c)   The plan shall provide for the separation of incoming and
outgoing vehicles during high volume periods and shall provide a safe drop-off
point for children that will not impede other traffic.
      (3)   An exterior sign is subject to the requirements of §§
154.210 et seq.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 15-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.077 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to a height
exceeding 35 feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.078 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling.
      (1)   The lot area for a single-family dwelling shall not be less than
9,800 square feet with a lot width of not less than 70 feet.
      (2)   No residential lot shall be less than 120 feet in depth.
      (3)   Setbacks for yards remain the same as the R-1 district.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling.
      (1)   The lot area for a two-family dwelling shall not be less than
16,000 square feet with a lot width of not less than 100 feet.
      (2)   No residential lot shall be less than 120 feet in depth.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 15-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.079 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following yard requirements shall apply to all yards in the Residential
- 2 District, unless otherwise specified herein:
 
Minimum front yard 50 Feet
Minimum rear yard  50 Feet
Minimum side yard  15 Feet, both sides
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 15-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.080 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 30% of
the area of the lot.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.081 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The provisions of §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.082 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The provisions of §§
154.185 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.083 DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.084 SITING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.085 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The provisions of §§
154.230 et seq. shall be in full force and effect in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
RESIDENTIAL - JOHNSON'S ISLAND DISTRICT
§ 154.100 PERMITTED USES.
   After obtaining a valid zoning permit, in accordance with §§
154.230 et seq., the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling; and
   (B)   Accessory building and use.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.101 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   In the Residential - Johnson's Island District, the following uses shall be
classified as conditionally permitted uses and may be permitted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals, subject to the requirements of §§
154.270 et seq. and the following conditions.
   (A)   Cemetery. Conditions for cemetery.
      (1)   Minimum site size is ten acres.
      (2)   (a)   All burial buildings or accessory buildings shall be setback
at least 75 feet from any street right-of-way bounding the cemetery.
         (b)   There shall be two side yards and a rear yard of at least 50
feet each.
      (3)   All graves or burial lots shall be setback at least 40 feet from
any street right-of-way bounding the cemetery and at least 40 feet from the
side and rear yards.
      (4)   A minimum of two points of entry at least 200 feet between
centerlines shall be required.
   (B)   Home occupations. An occupation carried on by an occupant of a
dwelling as a secondary use of that dwelling or in a structure accessory to the
dwelling provided that:
      (1)   No person is employed other than residents of the dwelling;
      (2)   If the home occupation is conducted in the dwelling, then the floor
area devoted to such operation shall not exceed 25% of the ground floor area of
the dwelling;
      (3)   If the home occupation is conducted in the structure accessory to
the dwelling, then the floor area devoted to such operation shall not exceed
600 square feet;
      (4)   Such use is not objectionable due to noise, hours of operation,
hazards or noxious processes;
      (5)   There is neither regular nor frequent traffic to the property by
the public for business or professional purposes;
      (6)   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior storage of
materials, and no other exterior indication of the home occupation or variation
from the residential character of the dwelling or the structure accessory to
the dwelling; and
      (7)   An exterior sign is subject to the requirements of §§
154.210 et seq.
   (C)   Community swimming pool.
      (1)   A community swimming pool shall be any pool constructed by an
association of property owners, for use and enjoyment by members and their
families.
      (2)   Such swimming pools shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   The pool is intended solely for and is used solely for the
enjoyment of the members and families and guests of members of the association
under whose ownership or jurisdiction the pool is operated.
         (b)   The pool and accessory structure thereto, including the area
used by the bathers, shall not be located closer than 75 feet to any property
line or easement.
         (c)   1.   The swimming pool, its accessory facilities, and all of the
area used by the bathers shall be so walled or fenced as to prevent
uncontrolled access by children from the street or adjacent properties.
            2.   The fence or wall shall not be less than six feet in height
and maintained in good condition with a gate and lock.
         (d)   The area surrounding the enclosure, except for the parking
spaces, shall be suitably landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs and trees and
maintained in good condition.
         (e)   Exterior lighting shall be so shaded or directed that it does
not cast light directly upon adjacent properties.
         (f)   Such pool facilities shall not be operated prior to 9:00 a.m. in
the morning or after 10:00 p.m. in the evening.
   (D)   Association community center.
      (1)   An association community center shall be any facility constructed
by an association of property owners, for use and enjoyment by members and
their families.
      (2)   Such facility shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   The community center is intended solely for and is used solely
for the enjoyment of the members and families and guests of members of the
association under whose ownership or jurisdiction the community center is
operated.
         (b)   The area surrounding the facility, except for the parking
places, shall be suitably landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs and trees and
maintained in good condition.
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall be so shaded or directed that it does
not cast light directly upon adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.102 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to a height
exceeding 35 feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.103 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The lot area shall not be less than 7,200 square feet with a lot width
of not less than 60 feet.
   (B)   No residential lot shall be less than 120 feet in depth.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.104 YARDS REQUIRED.
   The following yard requirements shall apply to all yards in the Residential
- Johnson's Island District, unless otherwise specified herein:
 
Minimum front yard 25 Feet
Minimum rear yard  25 Feet
Minimum side yard  5 Feet, both sides
 
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.105 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 40% of
the area of the lot.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.106 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The provisions of §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.107 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The provisions of §§
154.185 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.108 DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.109 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings shall be subject to the following regulations and
shall be permitted only on lots with a principal building already in existence
except as noted in division (C) below:
   (A)   (1)   For lots which have frontage on the waters of Sandusky Bay or
Lake Erie (lake lots), accessory buildings may be located in the front, rear or
side yards.
      (2)   For non-lake lots, accessory buildings shall be located in the rear
yard except for garages which may be located in the rear or side yard.
   (B)   For lake lots with a principal building, the following shall apply:
      (1)   Such buildings shall not exceed 20 feet in height;
      (2)   Such buildings shall be no closer than 60 feet to the rear (water
side) lot line, no closer than five feet to the main building, no closer than
25 feet to the front (road side) lot line, and no closer than five feet to the
side lot lines;
      (3)   The maximum floor area permitted for the accessory building may not
exceed 1,200 square feet or 50% of the floor area contained within the
residential structure, whichever is larger; and
      (4)   The maximum lot coverage requirement of 40% shall be met.
   (C)   For non-lake lots without a principal building, the following shall
apply:
      (1)   The lot on which the principal building is located must be within
50 feet of the lot in which the accessory building is to be located and owned
by the same party.
      (2)   The accessory building shall not exceed 30 feet in height, must be
located five feet from the side lot lines and between five and ten feet from
the rear lot line.
      (3)   The maximum floor area permitted for the accessory building may not
exceed 1,200 square feet.
      (4)   The maximum lot coverage requirement of 40% shall be met.
      (5)   (a)   An affidavit shall be required retaining the two parcels
(principal structure and the other lot within 50 feet) under the same ownership
until such time as a principal building can be constructed on the lot upon
which the accessory structure is located, based upon existing health and
sanitary codes.
         (b)   The affidavit shall be recorded in the Ottawa County Recorder’s
Office by the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of the issuance of the zoning
permit.
         (c)   The applicant shall pay the cost of the recording fee.
   (D)   For lots which have frontage on the waters of Lake Erie or Sandusky
Bay, docks, decks and the necessary appurtenances thereto may be located in the
required rear (water side) yard as accessory uses.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 7, 2011, passed 6-23-2011)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.110 SITING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.111 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The provisions of §§
154.230 et seq. shall be in full force and effect in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.125 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   A valid zoning permit, must be obtained in accordance with §§
154.230 et seq.
   (B)   The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Administrative offices;
      (2)   Antique shops;
      (3)   Appliance stores;
      (4)   Art galleries;
      (5)   Art schools;
      (6)   Art studio;
      (7)   Automobile and boat sales;
      (8)   Bait stores;
      (9)   Bakeries;
      (10)   Banks;
      (11)   Barber shops;
      (12)   Beauty shops;
      (13)   Bicycle shop;
      (14)   Blueprint (photocopy) service;
      (15)   Boat rentals;
      (16)   Boat storage;
      (17)   Bookstores;
      (18)   Bowling alleys;
      (19)   Camera shops;
      (20)   Canvas shop;
      (21)   Carry-outs and drive-thrus;
      (22)   Ceramic shops/stores;
      (23)   China stores;
      (24)   Clothing stores;
      (25)   Clubs and private lodges;
      (26)   Collection agency;
      (27)   Credit office;
      (28)   Dairy store;
      (29)   Dance halls;
      (30)   Dancing schools;
      (31)   Delicatessens;
      (32)    Detective office;
      (33)   Drive-in restaurant;
      (34)   Drugstores;
      (35)   Dry cleaning;
      (36)   Fabric/drapery store;
      (37)   Fish cleaning;
      (38)   Fish markets;
      (39)   Florist shops;
      (40)   Fruit markets;
      (41)   Glass shops;
      (42)   Greenhouses;
      (43)   Grocery stores;
      (44)   Hall, meeting and banquet;
      (45)   Hardware store;
      (46)   Hat shop;
      (47)   Hotels;
      (48)   Household goods stores;
      (49)   Household repair service;
      (50)   Jewelry stores;
      (51)   Lapidary shops;
      (52)   Laundromat, self-service;
      (53)   Laundry, commercial and industrial;
      (54)   Linen supply;
      (55)   Liquor retail stores;
      (56)   Lumber yards;
      (57)   Mailing services;
      (58)   Marine sales/service;
      (59)   Marine supplies;
      (60)   Marinas, public and private;
      (61)   Meat markets;
      (62)   Miniature golf;
      (63)   Motels;
      (64)   Movie theaters;
      (65)   Museums;
      (66)   Music schools;
      (67)   Night club;
      (68)   Novelty shops;
      (69)   Paint stores;
      (70)   Photoengraving;
      (71)   Plumbing and heating shops, retail;
      (72)   Printing shops;
      (73)   Professional offices;
      (74)   Proprietary stores;
      (75)   Recreational vehicle sales;
      (76)   Restaurants;
      (77)   Savings and loan institution;
      (78)   Shoe stores;
      (79)   Sign painting and manufacturer;
      (80)   Sporting goods store;
      (81)   Stationery stores;
      (82)   Swimming pools, community (subject to the regulations listed in §
154.051);
      (83)   Tailor shops;
      (84)   Taverns;
      (85)   Terminals, marine, passenger;
      (86)   Trade schools;
      (87)   Travel agencies;
      (88)   Typesetting;
      (89)   Upholstery shop;
      (90)   Variety shop;
      (91)   Veterinarian offices/hospital;
      (92)   Warehousing, mini-storage;
      (93)   Warehousing, retail;
      (94)   Watch repair shops;
      (95)   Water hauling operation; and
      (96)   Accessory buildings and uses.
      (97)   Single-family dwelling and two-family dwellings.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3, 2009, passed 2-12-2009)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.126 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   In a Business District, the following uses shall be classified as
conditionally permitted uses and may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, subject to the requirements of §§
154.270 et seq. and the following conditions:
   (A)   Service stations.
      (1)   General conditions for gasoline service stations.
         (a)   Site - minimum of one acre.
         (b)   Yard requirements as follows:
            1.   Frontage. Minimum frontage on the primary street of 125 feet.
            2.   Building setback.
               a.   Required minimum setback of 100 feet from all street right-
of-way lines.
               b.   A 15 feet deep unobstructed buffer strip shall be provided
next to the right-of- way and parking in this strip shall be prohibited.
            3.   Rear yard. A required minimum of 75 feet where the use abuts a
residential area or 40 feet abutting a nonresidential area.
            4.   Side yard. A required minimum of 75 feet where the use abuts a
residential area or 40 feet where abutting a nonresidential area.
            5.   Lot coverage. A maximum of 20% shall be permitted.
      (2)   Driveways.
         (a)   Maximum width of curb openings for stations should not be more
than 35 feet or less than 20 feet.
         (b)   No driveway or curb cut for a driveway shall be located within
ten feet of any adjoining property line or within 20 feet of an exterior
(corner) lot line as extended.
         (c)   Any two driveways giving access to a single street shall be
separated by a buffer strip with a minimum distance of 20 feet between the edge
of the two driveways.
         (d)   The angle of intersection of the center line of the driveway
with the center line of the street shall be not less than 60 degrees.
      (3)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Any unpaved areas of the site shall be landscaped or maintained
in a dust free condition and separated from the paved areas by a curb or other
barrier.
         (b)   There shall be a parking space for each employee (with a minimum
of two employee spaces) plus one space for each service bay, plus one space for
each restroom provided.
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall be shielded from adjacent properties to
prevent possible glare.
      (4)   Signs. The provisions of §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
      (5)   Service equipment.
         (a)   Gasoline pump islands, compressed air connections and other
equipment shall be setback a minimum of 30 feet from the right-of-way line.
         (b)   Hydraulic hoists, pits and all lubrication, washing and repair
equipment shall be enclosed within a building.
      (6)   Repair work. No major repair work shall be conducted in a gas
station.
      (7)   Outdoor storage of vehicles. Under any and all conditions shall be
limited to 72 hours.
   (B)   Motor vehicle/boat/recreational vehicle repair shop. General
conditions for motor vehicle/boat/recreational repair garages.
      (1)   Buildings used for such purposes shall not be nearer than 75 feet
from any residential area.
      (2)   Repairs shall be conducted completely within an enclosed building.
      (3)   One off-street parking space for each employee shall be provided in
addition to one space for each 250 square feet of floor space to accommodate
loading and unloading of materials, customer parking and storage of vehicles
repaired and to be repaired.
      (4)   All signs shall conform to the requirements set forth in §§
154.210 et seq.
   (C)   Automobile automatic wash station and self-served coin operated
facility. General conditions for automobile automatic wash and polish station
and self-served coin operated facility.
      (1)   An automobile washing and polishing establishment shall provide
reserve space off street for not less than ten automobiles per washing bay in
an automatic wash facility and five automobiles per washing bay in a coin
operated facility.
      (2)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each two
employees plus one space for the owner or manager.
      (3)   All outside lighting shall be shielded from adjacent properties.
      (4)   Each lot for an automatic car wash and polishing establishment
shall contain a minimum frontage of 125 feet and a depth of 200 feet.
      (5)   (a)   The wastewater shall be handled according to accepted County
Health Board practices.
         (b)   The use shall be located at least 100 feet from any lot used
residentially.
      (6)   Retail sales of related commercial products shall be permitted.
      (7)   Vehicles serviced and repair work shall not be permitted.
      (8)   Automobile washing and polishing services shall be performed wholly
within a totally enclosed building, with the exception that finishing of
vehicles may be conducted outside the building.
      (9)   Washing and polishing facilities when located adjacent to a
residential area shall be used only during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (10)   The building shall be a minimum of 40 feet from the side lot line.
   (D)   Funeral home.
      (1)   Minimum site size shall be one acre with a minimum width of 150
feet.
      (2)   (a)   The proposed site shall front upon a major thoroughfare.
         (b)   The ingress and egress to the site shall be directly from the
thoroughfare.
      (3)   No more than 30% of the gross site area shall be covered by
buildings, including accessory buildings.
      (4)   All signs shall conform to the requirements set forth in §§
154.210 et seq.
      (5)   Off-street parking shall be provided in conformance with the
schedule outlined in §§
154.185 et seq.
   (E)   Travel trailer park. Conditions for travel trailer park.
      (1)   Camp size. Minimum of ten acres.
      (2)   Yard.  
         (a)   Minimum front yard of 70 feet, minimum side yards of 45 feet
each side, minimum rear yard of 60 feet.
         (b)   If either side abuts a public or private right-of-way, the
minimum yard shall be 55 feet.
         (c)   The first 20 feet of each yard setback shall be composed of a
green planting strip (buffer zone).
      (3)   Access.
         (a)   Shall be provided into the camp with a minimum right-of-way of
50 feet.
         (b)   Marginal access roads may be required if deemed necessary by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (4)   Streets.
         (a)   Shall have a minimum right-of-way of 20 feet and be all-weather
roads.
         (b)   Streets may be placed within the yard setback but not within the
buffer zone.
      (5)   Recreation and open space. Twenty five percent of the gross camp
areas shall be reserved for such uses excluding yards, camp sites, buffer
zones, submerged lands and streets.
      (6)    Requirements of the Ohio Administrative Code. All requirements of
the Ohio Administrative Code shall be met.
      (7)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings and uses which are
appropriate to the parks operation may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (F)   Cabins/cottages. Conditions for cabins/cottages.
      (1)   The maximum number of cabins and cottages per acre shall not exceed
five.
      (2)   Each cabin and cottage used for residential occupancy shall be
provided with two off-street parking spaces.
      (3)   (a)   Cabins and cottages shall be separated from each other by a
minimum distance of 15 feet.
         (b)   This measurement shall be from the nearest point of one building
to the nearest point of the adjacent building.
      (4)   One principal dwelling shall be permitted, provided that the
setback requirements of the Business District shall be met.
      (5)   Cabins/cottages shall be not less than 500 square feet and not more
than 900 square feet.
      (6)   All other requirements of the Business District shall be met.
   (G)   [Reserved]
   (H)   Multi-family dwelling. The provisions of §§
154.076 et seq. shall apply in this district.
   (I)   Golf course. See §
154.051.
   (J)   Child day-care center/Type A family day-care home. See §
154.051.
   (K)   [Reserved].
   (L)   Home occupation. See §
154.051.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3, 2009, passed 2-12-2009; Am. Ord. 7, 2011, passed
6-23-2011; Ord. 15-2022, passed 10-12-2022)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.127 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   No building or structure shall be erected to a height in excess of 40 feet.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2, 2009, passed 2-12-2009)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.128 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   The lot area shall be not less than 7,200 square feet and the lot width
shall be at least 60 feet unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.129 YARDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following yard requirements shall apply to all yards in the
Business District unless specified herein.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   Minimum setback of 25 feet from the road right-of-way line.
         (b)   A five foot deep unobstructed open buffer strip shall be
provided next to the right-of- way and parking in this strip shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   Rear yard. Minimum 25 feet.
      (3)   Side yards.
 
Minimum Side                10 feet on both sides
Abutting a Side Street      15 feet
Abutting a Residential Area 15 foot unobstructed buffer strip suitably
                            landscaped
 
   (B)   Accessways.
      (1)   Each lot shall have not more than two accessways to any street or
highway with a 45 foot separation between centerlines.
      (2)   The width of the accessway leading to or from a highway shall be
not less than 20 feet nor shall it exceed 36 feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.130 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The provisions §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.131 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 60% of
the area of the lot.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.132 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The provisions of §§
154.185 shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.133 DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.015 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.134 CONDITIONS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   (A)   (1)   The minimum front yard setback shall be 35 feet, the minimum
rear yard setback shall be 25 feet, and the minimum side yard setback for both
sides shall be ten feet.
      (2)   Corner lots shall comply with the minimum front yard depths on both
streets.
      (3)   Double fronting lots shall comply with he minimum front yard depths
on both streets.
   (B)   The siting requirements of §§
154.015 et seq. shall be met.
   (C)   All other requirements of the Business District shall be met.
§ 154.135 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The provisions of §§
154.230 et seq. shall be in full force and effect in this district.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.999
MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 154.145 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   A valid zoning permit, must be obtained in accordance with §§
154.230 et seq.
   (B)   The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Administrative/executive offices;
      (2)   Art studio;
      (3)   Automobile sales - parts and supplies;
      (4)   Automobile repairs;
      (5)   Boat sales - repair and storage;
      (6)   Building contractors - equipment and material storage;
      (7)   Canvas goods - fabrication;
      (8)   Carpenter's shops and power woodworking;
      (9)   Contractors equipment and supplies - storage;
      (10)   Electrical contractors shop;
      (11)   Lumber storage yard;
      (12)   Lumber - used and wholesale;
      (13)   Machine shops;
      (14)   Meat processing machinery;
      (15)   Newspaper printing;
      (16)   Painters equipment and supplies - shops, wholesale and
warehousing;
      (17)   Quarry operations;
      (18)   Sheet metal shops;
      (19)   Terminals, freight;
      (20)   Terminals, marine-freight;
      (21)   Warehousing, mini-storage;
      (22)   Warehousing, industrial;
      (23)   Warehousing, retail;
      (24)   Warehousing and wholesale;
      (25)   Woodworking - cabinet and custom millwork;
      (26)   Woodworking - equipment; and
      (27)   Accessory buildings and uses.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.146 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   In a Manufacturing District, the following uses shall be classified as a
conditionally permitted use and may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, subject to the requirements of §§
154.270 et seq. and the following conditions.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunications facility.
      (1)   Information required. The following information is required to be
submitted with all applications for a conditional use permit to construct a
wireless telecommunications tower. The latest edition of the Ohio Building Code
referencing wind load requirements applies.
         (a)   1.   When a proposed wireless telecommunications facility is to
include a new tower, a site plan at a scale of not less than one inch is equal
to 100 feet shall be submitted to the Board.
            2.   This site plan shall indicated all properties and building
uses within 300 feet of the proposed facility.
            3.   Aerial photos and/or renderings may augment the site plan.
         (b)   A landscape plan shall be submitted indicating how the wireless
telecommunications facility will be screened from adjoining uses.
         (c)   1.   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower
shall provide evidence of written contact with all wireless service providers
who supply service within a quarter mile of the proposed facility.
            2.   The applicant shall inquire about potential collocation
opportunities at all technically feasible locations.
            3.   The contacted providers shall be requested to respond in
writing within 30 days.
            4.   The applicant's letter(s) as well as response(s) shall be
presented to the Board as a means of demonstrating the need for a new tower and
to establish proof that a newly constructed tower is necessary since
collocation on an existing tower is not feasible.
            5.   In addition, the applicant will be required to submit a
statement of need demonstrating why the proposed facility must be located where
it is proposed in order to serve the applicant's service area.
            6.   This statement must clearly explain why other nearby
structures cannot be used to support the proposed antenna and why a tower and
the proposed site is technically necessary.
         (d)   Applicants shall provide evidence of legal access to the tower
site thereby maintaining this access regardless of other development that may
take place on the site.
         (e)   A soil report complying with the latest edition of the standards
of American National Institute (ANSI)/ Electronic Industry Association (EIA)
section 222, as amended (Annex I: Geotechnical Investigations for Towers),
shall be submitted to the Board with the application to document and verify the
design specifications of the foundation of the tower, and anchors for guy
wires, if used.
         (f)   The applicant shall submit to the Board with the application, a
report prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Ohio
containing proof of the facility’s compliance with nationally accepted
structural standards published by the ANSI/EIA section 222, as amended, and a
description of the proposed tower’s capacity, including the number of antennas
it can accommodate.
         (g)   Elevations of existing and proposed structures showing width,
depth, and height of the wireless telecommunications facility as well as the
specifications of the antenna and support structure shall be submitted.
         (h)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed tower complies
with all Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations addressing radio
frequency and electromagnetic emissions standards.
         (i)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed tower complies
with all Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations concerning safety.
         (j)   The applicant shall submit a statement of compliance confirming
that the proposed facility complies with all federal and state laws and
regulations concerning aviation safety.
         (k)   The applicant shall submit a maintenance plan confirming that
the applicant will be responsible for maintaining the facility, and explaining
how the facility will be maintained in the future.
         (l)   Any other information which, in the judgement of the Board, may
be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this Zoning Chapter.
      (2)   General requirements. The following general requirements shall
apply to all wireless telecommunications facilities. The latest edition of the
Ohio Building Code referencing ice load requirements applies.
         (a)   Security fencing, a minimum of eight feet in height, shall
surround the tower, equipment shelter or other support facilities, and any guy
wires, either completely or individually as determined by the Board.
         (b)   The following buffer plantings around the perimeter of the
security fence shall be planted as a minimum as deemed appropriate by the
Board:
            1.   An evergreen screen shall be planted that consists of either a
hedge, planted three feet on center maximum, or a row of evergreen trees
planted five feet on center maximum.
            2.   The applicant shall be responsible for maintaining the
approved plantings.
         (c)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible.
         (d)   1.   Towers shall be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar
color minimizing its visibility, unless otherwise required by the FCC or FAA.
            2.   If the security fence mentioned in division (2)(a) above is a
wire mesh fence, it shall be painted the same color as the tower.
         (e)   No advertising shall be affixed to the tower or permitted on the
equipment shelter or any support facility, security fence or any other element
of the facility.
         (f)   1.   If at any time the use of the facility is discontinued for
a period of 180 days, the applicant shall have an additional 90 days to either
reactivate the facility or dismantle and remove the facility.
            2.   In the event that the facility is deactivated or abandoned,
the applicant shall provide notification by certified mail to the Zoning
Inspector of such event as soon as possible, but in no event later than seven
days following such deactivation or abandonment.
         (g)   1.   No tower of a height 150 feet or less shall be artificially
lighted except as required by the FAA.
            2.   Any tower greater than 150 feet in height shall follow safety
marking and obstruction lighting as prescribed by the FAA.
            3.   Security lighting around the equipment shelter or support
facilities is required if the lighting is directed inward towards the facility.
         (h)   "No Trespassing" or other similar warning signs shall be posted
around the facility with an emergency telephone number indicating the person(s)
or authority to contact in the event of an emergency situation.
         (i)   Underground equipment shelters or support facilities are
encouraged, and may be required by the Board.
         (j)   Facilities shall be fully automated and unattended on a daily
basis, and shall be visited only for periodic and necessary maintenance, except
during construction or an emergency situation.
         (k)   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennae shall be
designed to withstand sustained winds of at least 100 mph.
         (l)   The ANSI/EIA section 222, as amended (Annex H: Commentary on Ice
Design for Communications Structures) shall be consulted for ice load
specifications.
         (m)   1.   The applicant must agree to permit other wireless
telecommunications service providers to collocate onto the proposed facility
whenever possible on reasonable economic terms consistent with the actual
capital and operating expenses of the facility, and with the construction and
ongoing operation of the tower.
            2.   The applicant shall provide documentation on this subject upon
the request of the Board.
         (n)   1.   All applicants shall be required to construct or locate on
a base tower structure and structure foundation that is designed to be
buildable up to 200 feet above the finished grade.
            2.   Although the initial application and capacity may be for one
antenna, the structure shall be designed to serve as a base for a reconstructed
tower with the capacity for three providers when constructed to the maximum
allowable height.
         (o)   There shall be no handholds/footholds on the tower closer than
40 feet to the ground.
         (p)   In granting a conditional use permit, the Board may stipulate
the manner in which the conditional use shall be carried out or may require
other improvements and safeguards as conditions as it deems necessary for the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of the owner, and occupants of
surrounding lots or the public.
      (3)   Sole use on a lot. Wireless telecommunications facilities may be
located as the sole use of a lot if approved as a conditional use subject to
the following requirements:
         (a)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size shall be that of the
Manufacturing District (§
154.148).
         (b)   Minimum yard requirements.
            1.   Towers shall not be located closer than 300 feet to any
residentially used or zoned property.
            2.   Equipment shelters or support facilities shall meet the
minimum setback requirements of the Manufacturing District (§
154.148).
         (c)   Maximum height.
            1.   No tower, including the antenna, shall exceed 200 feet in
height.
            2.   All equipment shelters or support facilities shall not exceed
20 feet in height.
         (d)   Maximum size of equipment shelter. No single shelter or support
facility shall exceed 300 square feet in size, or if there is more than one,
750 square feet in aggregate size.
      (4)   Combined with another use. A wireless communications facility may
be located on a property as a conditional use with an existing use subject to
the following conditions.
         (a)   Existing uses.
            1.   The existing use(s) on the property may be any permitted use
in the district, an approved conditional use, or any lawful nonconforming use,
and need not be affiliated with the wireless telecommunications provider.
            2.   The wireless telecommunications facility shall not be
considered an addition to the structure or value of a nonconforming use.
         (b)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be the area needed
to accommodate the tower (and guy wires, if used), the equipment shelter or
supporting facilities, security fencing and buffer plantings.
         (c)   Minimum yard requirements.
            1.   Towers shall not be located closer than 300 feet to any
residentially used or zoned property.
            2.   The equipment shelter or support facility shall meet the
minimum setback requirements of the Manufacturing District (§
154.148).
         (d)   Access.
            1.   Service access to the facility shall, whenever feasible, be
provided along the circulation driveways of the existing use.
            2.   The applicant shall provide documentation that the owner of
the property has granted an easement or entered into a lease for the property
facility and that vehicular access is provided to the facility.
            3.   Vehicular access to the facility shall not interfere with
parking requirements or vehicular circulation on the site for the principal
use.
         (e)   Maximum height.
            1.   No tower, including the antenna, shall exceed 200 feet in
height.
            2.   All equipment shelters or support facilities shall not exceed
20 feet in height.
         (f)   Maximum size of equipment shelter. No single equipment shelter
or support facility shall exceed 300 square feet in size, or if there is more
than one, 750 square feet in aggregate size.
      (5)   Combined with an existing structure. An antenna for a wireless
communications facility may be attached to an existing structure or building
subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Maximum height. Twenty feet or 20% of the building or structure
height above the existing building or structure, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Locating telecommunications equipment in a separate shelter or
support facility. If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate shelter or support facility (not located on, or
attached to, the building or structure), the shelter or support facility shall
comply with the following:
            1.   The minimum setback requirements of the Manufacturing District
(§
154.148);
            2.   Landscaping shall be planted in accordance with division (2)
above;
            3.   Vehicular access to the shelter or facility shall not
interfere with the parking or vehicular circulation on the site for the
principle use.
            4.   The maximum size of a single shelter or facility shall not
exceed 300 square feet, or if there is more than one, 750 square feet in
aggregate size.
            5. The maximum height of a shelter or facility shall not exceed 20
feet.
      (6)   Exemption.
         (a)   Wireless telecommunications facilities may be located, with
Village Council approval, on any municipal owned land, buildings or structures.
         (b)   Wireless telecommunications towers located on municipal owned
land, buildings or structures are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Adult entertainment business. In order to obtain a permit under this
section, all requirements of
Chapter 154 must be met, as well as the requirements set forth in
Chapter 112, the Adult Entertainment Ordinance.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 19, 2008, passed 1-22-2009; Am. Ord. 7, 2011,
passed 6-23-2011)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.147 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   (A)   Buildings shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Chimney, tanks, communication and other type towers may be permitted
to a greater height upon approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.148 LOT AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area and width. Every lot in the Manufacturing District shall
contain a minimum area of 20,000 square feet and a lot frontage and width of
100 feet.
   (B)   Corner lots.
      (1)   The building's setback on corner lots shall be 25 feet from both
street right-of-way lines.
      (2)   The remaining yards shall conform to the provisions contained
herein.
   (C)   Yards required. Yards of the following width or depths shall be
provided for all permitted uses unless otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      (1)   Front yards.
         (a)   The minimum setback building line shall be 25 feet from the
street right-of-way line, and shall be appropriately landscaped and maintained.
         (b)   Such minimum space shall remain open and unoccupied by any
principal or accessory building or use other than driveways and sidewalks.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   There shall be two side yards, each having a width of not less
than 15 feet as measured from the side lot line to the nearest point of any
structure.
         (b)   Where the lot abuts any residential area there shall be a side
yard buffer strip of 50 feet on the side abutting the residential area.
         (c)   Such space abutting the residential area shall be appropriately
landscaped and maintained.
         (d)   Such space shall remain open and unoccupied by any principal or
accessory building or use.
      (3)   Rear yards.
         (a)   There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Rear yards used for parking shall be appropriately surfaced with
a desirable dust-free material and shall be graded and drained to dispose of
all surface water in the area.
         (c)   For those lots with rear lot lines abutting any residential area
there shall be a rear yard of not less than 50 feet.
         (d)   This area shall be appropriately landscaped and maintained and
shall remain open and unoccupied by any principal or accessory building.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.149 SIGNS.
   The provisions of §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.150 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.185 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.151 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 60% of
the area of the lot.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.152 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The provisions of §§
154.230 et seq. shall be in full force and effect in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
§ 154.165 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   A valid zoning permit, must be obtained in accordance with §§
154.230 et seq.
   (B)   The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Art galleries;
      (2)   Cemeteries (see §
154.051);
      (3)   Churches and their adjacent residential dwellings;
      (4)   Community centers;
      (5)   Funeral homes (see §
154.051);
      (6)   Administrative offices;
      (7)   Libraries;
      (8)   Medical and surgical hospitals, medical centers, clinics;
      (9)   Museums;
      (10)   Parks and playgrounds (see §
154.051);
      (11)   Public schools, elementary and high, and private schools having a
curriculum similar to a public school;
      (12)   Rest or convalescent homes, including homes for aged or infirm;
and
      (13)   Accessory building and uses.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.166 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   No building or structure shall be erected to a height in excess of 40 feet.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2, 2009, passed 2-12-2009)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.167 REQUIRED LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   The lot area shall be not less than 20,000 square feet and the lot width
shall be at least 100 feet unless otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.168 YARDS REQUIRED.
   The following yard requirements shall apply to all yards in the
Institutional District unless otherwise specified.
   (A)   Front yard. Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of not less than
25 feet.
   (B)   Side and rear yards.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a side yard of not less than 15 feet each.
      (2)   On a corner lot the street side yard shall equal the required front
yard for the lots facing that street.
      (3)   The rear yard of a double frontage lot shall meet the front yard
dimensional requirement.
   (C)   Minimum rear yard. Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of not less
than 25 feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.169 SIGNS.
   The provisions of §§
154.210 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.170 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
154.185 et seq. shall apply in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.171 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   All buildings including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 40% of
the area of the lot.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.172 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The provisions of §§
154.230 et seq. shall be in full force and effect in this district.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
§ 154.185 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or
its use changed unless permanently maintained off-street parking and loading
spaces have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter, except where there is a
change of use, shall not apply to any existing building or structure.
      (2)   Where the new use involves no additions or enlargements, there
shall be provided as many of such spaces as may be required by this subchapter.
   (C)   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
of this subchapter is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees,
number of housing units, seating capacity, or otherwise to create a need for an
increase in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces
shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change, provided whenever
a building or structure existing prior to the effective date of this chapter is
enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in floor area, number of employees,
number of housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, the building or
structure shall then and thereafter comply with the full parking requirements
set forth herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.186 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   A parking space shall have minimum rectangular dimensions of:
      (1)   Not less than ten feet in width and 20 feet in length for 90 degree
parking;
      (2)   Not less than nine feet in width and 23 feet in length for parallel
parking;
      (3)   Not less than nine feet in width and 21 feet in length for 60
degree parking; and
      (4)   Not less than 12 feet in width and 20 feet in length for 45 degree
parking.
   (B)   All dimensions shall be exclusive of driveways, aisles and other
circulation areas.
   (C)   Width dimensions are measured parallel to aisles or drives.
   (D)   Length dimensions are measured along the angle of the side of the
parking space.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.187 LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   A loading space shall have minimum dimensions of not less than 12 feet
in width, 50 feet in length, exclusive of driveways, aisles, and other
circulation areas, and a height clearance of not less than 15 feet.
   (B)   One off-street loading space shall be provided and maintained on the
same lot for every separate occupancy if that occupancy requires the delivery
of goods and if that occupancy has a gross floor area of 2,000 square feet up
to 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   One loading space shall be provided for each additional 10,000 square
feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.188 DRAINAGE.
   All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper drainage of surface
water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or
walkways.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.189 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of property used for parking and/or loading shall maintain such
area in good condition without holes and free of all dust, trash and other
debris.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.190 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Any parking area which is intended to be used during non-daylight
hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents.
   (B)   Any lights used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to
reflect the light away from the adjoining property.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.191 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The following regulations shall govern the location of off-street parking
spaces and areas.
   (A)   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same lot as the use which they are intended to serve.
   (B)   Parking spaces for commercial, manufacturing, or institutional uses
shall be located not more than 300 feet from the principal use.
   (C)   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories or similar residential uses
shall be located not more than 300 feet from the principal use.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.192 SCREENING AND/OR LANDSCAPING, PARKING AREA CAPACITY.
   Whenever a parking area a for non-residential use is located in or adjacent
to a residential use it shall be effectively screened on all sides which adjoin
or face any property used for residential purposes, by an acceptably designed
wall, fence, or planting screen. See §
154.022.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.193 REQUIRED TRASH AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   All commercial, manufacturing, and multi-family residential uses
that provide an exterior trash and/or garbage collection area shall provide a
trash receptacle area that is enclosed all four sides by a solid wall or fence
of at least four feet in height.
      (2)   Provisions for adequate vehicular access to and from such area or
areas for collection of trash and/or garbage as determined by the Planning
Commission shall be required.
   (B)   (1)   Trash areas shall be designated on the plans and be exclusive of
normal parking area requirements.1
      (2)   All trash receptacles/dumpsters shall be placed on the ground level
of the property where they are located, not within the right-of-way of a street
or alley, and accessible to a street or alley right- of-way.
      (3)   Location of such areas shall be approved by the Commission along
with proper screening and/or landscaping as described in §
154.022 to buffer adjacent districts. (See Ordinance 9, 1991)
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.194 MINIMUM DISTANCE AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   No part of any parking area for more than ten vehicles shall be closer
than 20 feet to any dwelling unit, school, hospital or other institution for
human care located on an adjoining lot, unless separated by an acceptably
designed screen.
   (B)   If on the same lot with a one-family residence, the parking area shall
not be located within the front yard required for such building.
   (C)   In no case shall any part of a parking area be closer than four feet
to any established street or alley right-of-way.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.195 WIDTH OF DRIVEWAYS.
   Driveways serving individual parking spaces shall be:
   (A)   Not less than 25 feet wide for 90 degree parking;
   (B)   Not less than 12 feet wide for parallel parking;
   (C)   Not less than 18 feet wide for 60 degree parking; and
   (D)   Not less than 13 feet wide for 45 degree parking.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.196 ACCESS.
   (A)   Parking areas for non-residential uses shall be designed in such a
manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or into a
public or private street shall be traveling in a forward motion.
   (B)   Access of driveways for parking areas or loading spaces shall be
located in such a way that any vehicle entering or leaving such lot shall be
clearly visible for a reasonable distance to any pedestrian or motorist
approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.197 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following parking space requirements
shall apply.
Type of Use Parking Space Required
Type of Use                             Parking Space Required
Residential
Single-family or two-family dwelling    2 for each unit
Apartment hotels, apartments or multi-  2 for each unit
family dwellings
Boarding houses, rooming houses,        1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each
dormitories and fraternity houses which permanent occupant
have sleeping rooms
Commercial
Automobile service stations which also  1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 2 for
provide repair                          each service bay
Hotel, motels                           1 per each sleeping room plus 1 space
                                        for each 2 employees
Funeral parlors, mortuaries and similar 1 for each 100 square feet of floor
type uses                               area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                        service rooms
Recreational/Entertainment
Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,     1 for each 200 square feet of floor
night clubs and the like                area
                                        4 for each alley or lane plus 1
Bowling alleys                          additional space for each 100 square
                                        feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                        cocktail lounge or similar use
Dance floors, skating rinks             1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area used for the activity
                                        1 for each 5 persons capacity plus 1
Outdoor swimming pools, public or       for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30
community or club                       square feet floor area used for seating
                                        purposes whichever is greater
Auditoriums, sport arenas, theaters and 1 for each 4 seats
similar uses
Retail stores                           1 for each 250 square feet floor area
Banks, financial institutions and       1 for each 200 square feet of floor
similar uses                            area
Offices, public or professional         1 for each 400 square feet of floor
administration or service buildings     area
 
Type of Use Parking Space Required
Type of Use                             Parking Space Required
All other types of business or          1 for each 300 square feet of floor
commercial uses permitted in any        area
commercial district
Institutional
Churches and other places of religious  1 for each 5 seats
assembly
Hospitals                               1 for each bed
Sanitariums, homes for the aged,
nursing homes, children homes, asylums  1 for each 2 beds
and similar uses
                                        1 for every 200 square feet of floor
Medical and dental clinics              area of examination, treatment room
                                        office and waiting room
Libraries, museums and art galleries    1 for each 400 square feet of floor
                                        area
Schools (All Types)
Elementary and senior high schools      2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8
                                        seats in auditoriums or assembly halls
High schools                            1 for every 10 students and 1 for each
                                        teacher and employee
Business, technical and trade schools   1 for each 2 students
Colleges, universities                  1 for each 4 students
Kindergartens, child care center,       2 for each classroom but not less than
nursery schools and similar uses        6 for the building
Industrial
All types of manufacturing, storage and 1 for every 2 employees (on the largest
wholesale uses permitted in any         shift for which the building is
industrial district                     designed) plus 1 for each motor vehicle
                                        used in the business
                                        1 for every 2 employees (on the largest
Cartage, express, parcel delivery and   shift for which the building is
freight terminals                       designed) and 1 for each motor vehicle
                                        maintained on the premises
 
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.198 GENERAL INTERPRETATIONS.
   In the interpretation of this subchapter, the following rules shall govern:
   (A)   Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed in
this subchapter shall be determined by the Board.
   (B)   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.199 PLOT PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Whenever six or more vehicles are required for a given use under the
requirements of this subchapter, plans and specifications for the construction
or alteration of an off-street parking area shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator before a zoning permit can be issued.
   (B)   Such plans and specifications should show the location, basis and
capacity calculation, size, site design, surfacing, lighting, drainage, curb
cuts, entrances, exits and any other detailed features essential to the
complete design and construction of the parking area.
(Ord. passed - -)
SIGNS
§ 154.210 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these sign regulations is to encourage the proper
development and use of planned graphic signage systems and to regulate signs
and signage systems.
   (B)   To protect the general health, safety and welfare; and to protect and
encourage a more attractive economic, business and overall physical appearance
of the community, all signs and signage systems are subject to the regulations
that follow in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.211 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. A sign used to advertise a business, commodity or service
conducted elsewhere than on the premises on which the billboard is located.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or a
building.
   SIGN. Every sign, billboard, ground sign, wall sign, roof sign, illuminated
sign, projecting sign, temporary sign, marquee, awning and canopy, and shall
include any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, illustration or
insignia used to advertise or promote the interest of any person when the same
is placed out of doors in view of the general public.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not permanently affixed and includes all
devices such as banners, pennants, search lights, twirling or sandwich type
signs, sidewalk or curb signs and balloons or other air or gas filled figures.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.212 SIGN PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Animated signs. No flashing, moving or animated signs shall be
erected, constructed in the municipality.
   (B)   Billboards. No billboards shall be erected or constructed in the
municipality.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.213 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location, where, by
reason of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape or color, it may
obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic control signal, sign or device.
      (2)   No sign shall contain or make use of any phrase, symbol, shape, or
form or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
moving traffic.
      (3)   All fittings, wiring and materials used in the construction,
connection and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall be in
accordance with the local electrical code in effect.
      (4)   The intensity and direction of the illumination of all signs shall
be so controlled as not to become a traffic hazard or a nuisance to surrounding
property owners.
      (5)   No sign may be erected on any pole, or column, on public property
or located a distance, the horizontal projection of which is less than ten feet
from any fire hydrant, traffic light or erected in any location where by reason
of traffic conditions, fire or other hazard, it would imperil public safety or
interfere with the duties of the Police or Fire Departments.
   (B)   Setback. The minimum setback of signs from the street right-of-way
line shall be not less than ten feet, or in line with the front building line
of the main structure existing on the premises.
   (C)   Setback exemption for Main Street between Clemons Street and Gilbert
Street.
      (1)   On Main Street between Clemons Street and Gilbert Street, signs may
be placed at the road right-of-way.
      (2)   If the sign is less than five feet from the road right-of-way, the
sign may not exceed eight square feet in area; if the sign is five feet or more
from the road right-of-way, the sign may not exceed 16 square feet.
   (D)   Signs permitted. The following signs shall be permitted in the
municipality.
      (1)   Each permitted or required parking area that has a capacity for
more than five cars shall be permitted one sign per five parking spaces, not
more than two square feet in area, designating each entrance or exit from such
parking area; and one sign, not more than nine square feet in area, identifying
or designating the conditions or use of such parking area.
      (2)   One "for sale" or "for rent" sign not more than six square feet in
area for each dwelling, building, garage or other quarters where appropriate.
      (3)   Signs established by or by order of any governmental agency.
      (4)   One sign not more than 12 square feet, in area, for construction
and development, giving the name of the contractors, engineers or architects,
shall be permitted but only during the time that construction or development
activity is underway.
      (5)   (a)   For an event of public interest such as a county fair, or
church event, one sign, not over 24 square feet in area and located on the site
of the event shall per permitted.
         (b)   Such sign shall be erected not more than 30 days before the
event in question and shall be removed immediately after the event.
         (c)   Also, directional signs, not more than three square feet in
area, shall be permitted, provided such sign shall not be erected more than
seven days before the event, and shall be removed immediately after the event.
      (6)   Signs or bulletin boards customarily incidental to places of
worship, libraries and museums; such sign shall not exceed 24 square feet in
area and shall be located on the premises of such institution.
      (7)   (a)   Multiple signs which pertain to the primary use of the
property upon which the sign is located are permitted on that property.
         (b)   Signs which pertain to the property shall not exceed 36 square
feet (per sign), shall not exceed an aggregate 25% of the total area of the
building face, and shall have a height no higher than the height of the
building on which it is located.
   (E)   Measurement of area. The area of a sign shall be determined by the
smallest circle, triangle or rectangle that can be used to enclose the sign,
exclusive of supporting members that bear no message or symbol.
   (F)   Portable signs and/or temporary signs. Portable signs and/or temporary
signs shall be permitted, under the following conditions.
      (1)   The portable sign or temporary sign must be removed when the
business closes for the season.
      (2)   The portable sign or temporary sign shall not contain more than 16
square feet of area, must be placed ten feet or more from road right-of-way,
and shall not create a safety hazard for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      (3)   No flashing or intermittent lighting shall be used in the portable
or temporary sign.
      (4)   (a)   Portable signs or temporary signs shall be allowed within the
five foot setback from the road right-of-way within the exempted area of the
municipality.
         (b)   Portable or temporary signs within the five foot setback within
the exempted area of the municipality shall not exceed eight square feet in
area.
      (5)   All signs permitted under this section shall comply with division
(A) above of these regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.214 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall erect, repair, alter, and relocate within the
municipality any sign or other advertising structure without first obtaining a
signed permit from the Zoning Administrator and making payment of the fee
required for such permit.
      (2)   Except that repairs or maintenance not involving structural changes
may be permitted without first obtaining a permit.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Application for sign permits shall be made upon forms provided by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The application shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The location of the building, structure or lot to which the sign
or other advertising structure is to be attached, erected or placed;
         (c)   The position of the sign or other advertising structure in
relation to nearby buildings, structures, right-of-way (public and private) and
utility lines;
         (d)   Two sets of scaled drawing of the plans and specifications, the
method of installation in the ground or the placement of the sign on the
premises;
         (e)   The name and address of the person erecting the structure or
placing the sign on the premises;
         (f)   Written consent from the owner of the land or structure,
building to which the sign is to be erected; and
         (g)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator shall require
showing full compliance with these regulations of the village.
      (3)   If the work authorized under a sign permit has not be completed
within six months after the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and
void.
   (C)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Every applicant before being granted a sign permit shall pay a fee
to the municipality for each sign or other advertising structure regulated by
this subchapter.
      (2)   Such fees shall be listed in the Fee Schedule as amended from time
to time by Council.
   (D)   Revocability and permits.
      (1)   All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of this
subchapter or under any amendments here of are mere licenses revocable at any
time by the Zoning Administrator and all permits shall contain this provision.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator is here by authorized to revoke any permit
issued by it upon failure of the holder there of to comply with the provisions
of this subchapter.
      (3)   Permit fees are not refundable if permit is revoked for failure to
comply with this subchapter.
   (E)   Permit exemptions.
      (1)   The permit provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following signs.
      (2)   Such signs, however, are still subject to the regulations provided
for in this subchapter:
         (a)   Non-illuminating real estate signs not exceeding six square feet
in area which advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which
such signs are located;
         (b)   Non-illuminated signs not exceeding 20 square feet in area which
advertise the sale or development of lot subdivisions containing an area of not
less than seven lots, erected upon the property so developed and advertised for
sale;
         (c)   Name plates not exceeding two square feet in area, containing
only the name of the resident, and the title of the person practicing a
profession, the name of the building and the name of the agent;
         (d)   Bulletin boards not exceeding 15 square feet in area erected
upon the premises of a church, funeral home or public institution of the
purpose of displaying the name of the institution and its activities;
         (e)   Sign denoting the architect, engineer or contractor when placed
upon work under construction, not exceeding 12 square feet in area;
         (f)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of
erection, provided that such signs do not exceed two square feet in area;
         (g)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad
crossing signs, danger and such temporary, emergency or non-advertising signs
as may be approved by Council;
         (h)   Any sign painted or lettered directly on a window or other
necessary part of a building when the sign is inside of the building; and
         (i)   1.   Temporary banners used to advertise a sale, or other such
unique events not intended to last more than a short period of time.
            2.   A temporary banner may be displayed after notification form
has been filed with the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.215 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   The continuance of an existing sign which does not meet the
regulations and requirements of this subchapter shall be deemed a nonconforming
sign.
   (B)   The right to have a nonconforming sign shall terminate when the sign
is considered abandoned.
   (C)   A sign shall be considered abandoned when:
      (1)   The sign is associated with an abandoned use;
      (2)   (a)   The sign remains after the termination of a business.
         (b)   A business has ceased operations if it is closed to the public
for at least 90 consecutive days.
         (c)   Seasonal businesses are exempt from this determination;
      (3)   The sign is not maintained or does not conform to the following.
         (a)   1.   All signs, together with all supports, braces, guys and
anchors shall be kept in repair and in proper state or preservation.
            2.   The display surfaces of all signs shall be subject to periodic
inspection and shall be maintained in a clean, clear and readable condition.
         (b)   Every sign and the immediately surrounding premises shall be
maintained by the owner or person in charge thereof in a clean, sanitary and
inoffensive condition free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and
weeds; or
      (4)   (a)   Abandonment shall be determined based upon the above
definitions.
         (b)   Upon a finding that the signage is abandoned, the first to
maintain and use such sign shall terminate immediately.
   (D)   (1)   A nonconforming sign shall not be structurally relocated or
replaced unless it is brought into compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Should any replacement or relocation take place without being
brought into compliance, the sign shall exist illegally.
   (E)   A nonconforming sign shall be maintained or repaired in accordance
with the following provisions:
      (1)   (a)   The size and structural shape shall not be changed or
altered.
         (b)   The copy may be changed provided that the change applies to the
original nonconforming use associated with the sign and the change is made by
the owner of the sign at the time the sign became nonconforming; the copy area
shall not be enlarged.
         (c)   Any subsequent owner or user shall bring the sign into
compliance within 30 days; and
      (2)   (a)   In case damage occurs to the sign to the extent of 50% or
more of either the structure or the replacement value of the sign, the sign
shall be brought into compliance.
         (b)   Where damage to the sign is less than 50% of the structure or
its replacement value, the sign shall be repaired within 60 days.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.216 UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   (A)   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any sign or other advertising
structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public,
or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter, notice shall be given in writing by the
Zoning Administrator to the owner thereof.
   (B)   If the owner fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply
with the standards herein set forth within ten days after such notice, such
sign or other advertising structure may be removed by the Street Commissioner
at the expense of the permittee, owner of the sign or owner of the property
upon which it is located.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall refuse to issue a permit to any
permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may cause any sign or other advertising
structure which is an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed
summarily and without notice.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.217 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE OR APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   An applicant for a sign permit that cannot comply with the
regulations of this subchapter may file an application for a variance or appeal
with the Zoning Administrator who shall transmit the same to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   The fee for filing this request for variance or appeal shall be
listed on the Fee Schedule as amended from time to time by Council.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and consider the request
for a variance from the regulations of this subchapter or an appeal from the
denial of a permit by the Zoning Administrator at its next regular meeting held
15 or more days after the filing of the request for a variance or appeal.
      (2)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by attorney.
   (C)   In reviewing the application for a variance, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may consider the narrowness, shallowness, shape, location, structures
in the neighborhood, traffic patterns, topographic conditions and any other
information and conditions deemed relevant, that the strict application of this
subchapter would result in peculiar and exception difficulties or undue
hardship upon the owner of the premises upon which a sign is to be located.
   (D)   A variance may be granted if it is found that the variance can be
granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the intent of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.230 ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to,
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or land be established
or changed in use to a use of a different classification without a permit
issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   For applications that do not conform with the provisions of this
subchapter, a permit shall not be issued unless the Zoning Administrator
receives a written order from the Board of Zoning Appeals deciding an appeal or
permitting a conditional use or variance, as provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.231 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a zoning permit shall be signed by the owner and
applicant attesting to tell the truth and exactness of all information supplied
on the application.
   (B)   Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire and
may be revoked if work has not begun within one year or substantially completed
within two and one-half years.
   (C)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Existing use;
      (4)   Proposed use;
      (5)   Zoning district;
      (6)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions
and the shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of
existing buildings on the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the
proposed building(s) or alterations;
      (7)   Building heights;
      (8)   Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths;
      (9)   Number of dwelling units; and
      (10)   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.232 APPROVAL OF ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Within 15 days after the receipt of an application, the Zoning
Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All zoning permits shall, however, be conditional upon the
commencement of work within one year.
   (C)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the Zoning
Administrator, after he or she shall have marked such copy either as approved
or disapproved and attested to same by his or her signature on such copy.
   (D)   One copy of plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a placard, to be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property in question, attesting to the fact that the
use or alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.233 SUBMISSION TO DIRECTOR OF THE OHIO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Before any zoning permit is issued affecting any land within 300 feet
of the centerline of a proposed new highway or a highway for which changes are
proposed as described in the certification to local officials by the Director
of Transportation or any land within a radius of 500 feet from the point of
intersection of the centerline with any public road or highway, the Zoning
Administrator shall give notice, by registered or certified mail to the
Director of Transportation.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning permit for 120 days
from the date the notice is received by the Director of Transportation.
   (C)   If the Director of Transportation notifies the Zoning Administrator
that he or she shall proceed to acquire the land needed, then the Zoning
Administrator shall refuse to issue the zoning permit.
   (D)   If the Director of Transportation notifies the Zoning Administrator
that acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon the
expiration of the 120 day period of any extension thereof agreed upon by the
Director of Transportation and the property owner, the Zoning Administrator
shall, if application is in conformance with all provisions of this chapter,
issue the zoning permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.234 EXPIRATION OF ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   If the work described in any zoning permit has not begun within one
year from the date of issuance thereof, the permit shall expire; it shall be
revoked by the Zoning Administrator; and written notice thereof shall be given
to the persons affected.
   (B)   If the work described in any zoning permit has not been substantially
completed within two and one-half years of the date of issuance thereof, the
permit shall expire and be revoked by the Zoning Administrator, and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the cancelled permit shall not proceed unless
and until a new zoning permit has been obtained or extension granted.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.235 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of compliance shall have been issued therefore by
the Zoning Administrator stating that the proposed use of the building or land
conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.236 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   A temporary certificate of compliance may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for a period not exceeding six months during alterations or
partial occupancy of a building pending its completion.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.237 RECORD OF CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all certificates of
compliance and a copy shall be furnished upon request to any person.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.238 FAILURE TO OBTAIN A ZONING PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   Failure to obtain a zoning permit or certificate of compliance shall be a
violation of this chapter and punishable under §
154.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.239 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS,
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Zoning permits or certificates of compliance issued on the basis of
plans and applications approved by the Zoning Administrator authorize only the
use, and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto, and no other use, or arrangement, or construction.
   (B)   Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and punishable as provided in §
154.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.240 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
   (B)   Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall record properly such complaint,
immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.241 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Village Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, certificates of
compliance, appeals and all other matters pertaining to this chapter.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Zoning
Inspector. The fees may be modified by Village Council at any time by motion of
Council and a majority vote of its members.
   (C)   Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 24, 2005, passed 8-11-2005; Am. Ord. 8-2018, passed
10-24-2018) Penalty, see  §
154.999
§ 154.242 GENERAL.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, Village Council may by ordinance after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission, and subject to procedures
provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations,
restrictions, and boundaries or classification of property.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.243 INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   (A)   By adoption of a motion by the Planning Commission;
   (B)   By adoption of a resolution by Village Council; or
   (C)   By the filing of an application by at least one owner or lessee of
property within the area proposed to be changed or affected by the amendment
with the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.244 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   The application for amendment shall contain at least the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   (B)   Proposed amendment to the text or legal description;
   (C)   Present use;
   (D)   Present zoning district;
   (E)   Proposed use;
   (F)   Proposed zoning district;
   (G)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Zoning Administrator showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the Zoning Administrator may require;
   (H)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and directly
across the street from the parcel(s) proposed to be rezoned, including the tax
mailing addresses of the property owners; and
   (I)   A fee as established by Village Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.245 TRANSMITTAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Immediately after the adoption of a resolution by the Village Council or the
filing of an application by at least one owner or lessee of property, the
resolution or application shall be transmitted to the Commission.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.246 SUBMISSION TO THE DIRECTOR OF THE OHIO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Before any zoning amendment is approved affecting any land within 300
feet of the centerline of a proposed new highway or highway for which changes
are proposed as described in the certification to local officials by the
Director of Transportation, or within a radius of 500 feet from the point of
intersection of the centerline with any public road or highway, the Commission
shall give notice, by registered or certified mail to the Director of
Transportation.
   (B)   The Commission may proceed as required by law, however, the Village
Council shall not approve the amendment for 120 days from the date the notice
is received by the Director of Transportation.
   (C)   The Director of Transportation notifies the village that he or she
shall proceed to acquire the land needed, then the village shall refuse to
approve the rezoning.
   (D)   If the Director of Transportation notifies the village that
acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon the expiration
of the 120 day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Director of
Transportation and the property owner, the Village Council shall proceed as
required by law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.247 PUBLIC HEARING BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall schedule a public hearing after the
adoption of a motion, transmittal of a resolution from Village Council, or the
filing of an application for zoning amendment.
   (B)   The hearing shall be not less than 20 days from the date of the
receipt of such motion, transmittal of such resolution or the filing of such
application.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.248 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   (A)   Before holding the public hearing, notice of such hearing shall be
given by the Planning Commission or Fiscal Officer by at least one publication
in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village at least 15
days before the date of the hearing.
   (B)   This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing,
the nature of the proposed amendment and a statement that after the conclusion
of such public hearing the matter will be referred to the Village Council for
further determination.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.249 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   If the proposed amendment intends to rezone or redistrict ten or less
parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the hearing
shall be mailed by the Planning Commission or Village Fiscal Officer by first
class mail, at least 20 days before the date of the hearing to all owners of
property within, contiguous to, and directly across the street from such area
proposed to be rezoned or redistricted to the address of such owners appearing
on the County Auditor's current tax list or the Treasurer's mailing list and to
such other list or lists that may be specified by the Village Council.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the same information as required of notices
published in newspapers as specified in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.250 RECOMMENDATIONS BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Within 15 days after the public healing, the Planning Commission shall
recommend to Village Council that the amendment be granted as requested, or it
may recommend a modification of the amendment requested or it may recommend
that the amendment be not granted.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall transmit in writing its recommendation
to the Village Council by presenting the recommendation to Village Council at a
Council meeting or by serving the Fiscal Officer with the recommendation during
regular business hours.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 6-10-2015)
§ 154.251 PUBLIC HEARING BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the recommendation from the Planning Commission,
Village Council shall schedule a public hearing.
   (B)   The hearing shall be not more than 50 days from the receipt of the
recommendation from the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 6-10-2015)
§ 154.252 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   (A)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given by Village Council by at
least one publication in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the
village.
   (B)   The notice shall be published at least 30 days before the date of the
required hearing.
   (C)   The published notice shall set forth the time and place of the public
hearing and a summary of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.253 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   If the proposed amendment intends to rezone or redistrict ten or less
parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the hearing
shall be mailed by the Fiscal Officer, by first class mail, at least 20 days
before the day of the public hearing to all owners of property within,
contiguous to, and directly across the street from such area proposed to be
rezoned or redistricted to the address of such owners appearing on the County
Auditor's current tax list or the Treasurer's mailing list and to such other
list or lists that may be specified by Village Council.
   (B)   The failure to deliver the notification, as provided in this section
shall not invalidate any such amendment.
   (C)   The notice shall contain the time and place of the public hearing and
the nature of the amendment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.254 ACTION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Within 45 days after such public hearing, Village Council shall either
adopt or deny the recommendation of the Planning Commission, or adopt some
modification thereof.
   (B)   In the event that Village Council denies the recommendation of the
Planning Commission or modifies the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
that action shall not take effect unless such action is approved by not less
than three-fourths of the membership of the legislative authority.
   (C)   No action by Council which is in accordance with the recommendation of
the Planning Commission shall be deemed to be passed without the concurrence of
at least a majority of the membership of the legislative authority.
   (D)   No such ordinance shall be passed unless it has been read on three
different days except that such ordinance may become emergency legislation if
the Village Council votes to dispense with this rule.
(Ord. 6, 2015, passed 6-10-2015)
§ 154.255 EFFECTIVE DATE AND REFERENDUM.
   (A)   Such chapter adopted by Village Council shall become effective 30 days
after the date of such adoption unless within 30 days after the passage of the
ordinance there is presented to the Fiscal Officer a petition, signed by a
number of qualified voters residing in the village equal to not less than 10%
of the total vote cast in such area at the last preceding general election at
which a Governor was elected, requesting the Village Council to submit the
Zoning Chapter to the electors of the village for approval or rejection at the
next general election.
   (B)   (1)   No amendment for which such referendum vote has been requested
shall be put into effect unless a majority of the vote cast on the issue is in
favor of the amendment.
      (2)   Upon certification by the Board of Elections that the amendment has
been approved by the voters, it shall take immediate effect.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.256 PART-TIME ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. A part-time Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by
the Village Council for the purpose of administration and enforcement of the
Zoning Code. The part-time Zoning Administrator may be provided the assistance
of other persons as the Village Council may direct.
   (B)   Supervisor. The part-time Zoning Administrator, in the application of
Zoning Code, is supervised by the Planning Commission and its chairperson, in
all other employment respects, the part- time Zoning Administrator is
supervised by the Mayor and the Council of the village.
   (C)   Responsibilities. The responsibilities of the part-time Zoning
Administrator (ZA) are:
      (1)   The ZA must establish and maintain a schedule of hours of
availability that will meet the needs of the public, the Planning Commission,
and the Village Council. The ZA must have a phone number by which the public
can make contact and that the village can publish in its directory . Having an
answering machine is also strongly recommended.
      (2)   If the ZA is employed by the village in any other paid position,
the hours of work for which the ZA is being paid in that position, shall not be
utilized to perform any zoning duties or activities.
      (3)   The ZA's compensation will be as determined by Village Council from
time to time. All reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the ZA in the
performance of his or her duties will be borne by the village. (No mileage will
be paid). Expenses will be submitted to and reviewed monthly by the Fiscal
Officer.
      (4)   Enforce the provisions of the Zoning Code and interpret the meaning
and application of its provisions.
      (5)   Promptly respond to questions concerning applications for
amendments to the Zoning Code text and the Official Zoning District Map.
      (6)   Issue zoning permits as provided by this section and keep a record
of same with notation of any special conditions involved:
         (a)   Zoning permits will be issued within 15 days of the application
for construction of a new building or the enlargement of an existing building.
         (b)   If a permit is refused or disapproved, the Zoning Administrator
will advise the applicant of same, in writing, within 15 days of application
and will explain alternative courses of action that the applicant cart take.
         (c)   Permits for use of vacant land, or of a building, or for a
change in nonconforming use shall be issued within 15 days of application.
      (7)   Conduct inspections of buildings and uses of land to determine
compliance with this section and in the case of any violations, notify in
writing the person(s) responsible, specifying the nature of the violation and
ordering corrective action. Compliance inspections must be made to insure
strict adherence to the Zoning Code.
      (8)   Insure current Official Zoning District Map is kept on permanent
display in the village offices.
      (9)   Maintain permanent and current records required by this section
including, but not limited to, zoning permits, certificates of compliance,
inspection documents and related records. A telephone log of all calls
concerning zoning issues that identifies who, when and why must be maintained
at all times. The records will be made available by the ZA for use by the
Village Council, the Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals and the
public.
      (10)   The ZA is responsible to provide, update, issue and maintain all
forms and files as required by the Zoning Code.
      (11)   Review and approve plot plans pursuant to this section.
      (12)   Determine the existence of any violations of this section and
cause such notification, revocation notices; or stop work orders to be issued
or initiate other administrative action or obtain legal advice as needed to
address such violations.
      (13)   Provide a report to the Planning Commission detailing all zoning
activity occurring during the span of time between their scheduled meetings.
This report will include:
         (a)   Permit number of application and related fee.
         (b)   Date of application.
         (c)   Date of site inspection.
         (d)   Date permit was issued or reissued.
         (e)   Applications name, address and description of permit.
         (f)   Any pertinent data supporting permit refusals.
         (g)   A copy of any zoning violation issued which will include type of
violation, date notice was issued, status of violation and action taken by ZA
to insure correction of violation.
         (h)   Any other zoning activities handled by the ZA including, but not
limited to, complaints and special requests.
         (i)   A copy of all date included with zoning permit applications and
permit approvals and refusals filed since the Commissions last meeting must be
available for review by the Commission at its meetings.
      (14)   The ZA must know and have current knowledge of all village
ordinances, resolutions and rules that may impact zoning.
   (D)   Zoning violations.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator will issue a zoning violation as follows:
         (a)   When the Zoning Administrator determines there is a violation of
any provision of the Zoning Ordinance; or
         (b)   After formal action by the Village Council or the Village Board
of Zoning Appeals or State Court.
      (2)   The ZA will issue a stop work order when he or she determines that
work is being done contrary to this section or after formal action by the
Village Council or the Village Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   An order to cease and desist will be issued when the ZA determines
that land or structures are being used contrary to this section or after formal
action by the Village Council or the Village Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (4)   The ZA will issue a revocation notice revoking a permit issued
contrary to this section based upon mistake, false or incomplete information or
misrepresentation or any combination of the above by any person or persons,
including the ZA.
      (5)   All notices or orders shall:
         (a)   Be in. writing;
         (b)   Identify the violation;
         (c)   Include the reason(s) for its issuance referring to section(s)
of this section;
         (d)   State the time by which the violation shall be corrected if
immediate compliance is not warranted;
         (e)   State the time and manner of appeal permitted by this section
and shall be served as provided under services of notices or orders.
   (E)   Services of notice or orders.
      (1)   Notices or orders shall be delivered upon the person(s) responsibly
by the ZA as follows:
         (a)   By personal delivery by personally handing the notice or order
to such person(s), noting the date, time and place of service upon the
village's copy;
         (b)   By certified mail, return receipt requested: if returned
unclaimed, by ordinary mail, with proof of service. Ordinary mail shall be
deemed complete upon mailing as long as the mailing is not returned within 15
days showing failure of delivery.
      (2)   In addition to the service of notice orders, a copy of all notices
or orders which require immediate compliance shall be posted upon the premises
where the zoning violation is taking place, if feasible.
      (3)   If the zoning violation is not corrected within the specified
period of time, the ZA shall refer the matter to the Village Solicitor for
appropriate legal action.
   (F)   Final inspection. It shall be the duty of the ZA to conduct routine
follow-up at three-month intervals on the status of each issued permit and make
recommendaiions to the Planning Commission, Village Council or Village
Solicitor of any action necessary to insure compliance with the issued permit
or to authorize or disapprove a final inspection.
(Ord. 27, 2002, passed 9-12-2002)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.270 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be to decide any issue
involving the interpretation of the provisions contained in this chapter, to
grant variances from the strict letter of the chapter in instances of
unnecessary hardship and to authorize conditional uses as herein provided.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.271 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Planning Commission shall be the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (B)   Organization and rules.
      (1)   (a)   The Board shall organize annually and elect a Chairperson,
Vice Chairperson and secretary from its membership.
         (b)   The secretary need not be a member of the Board.
         (c)   The Board shall adopt rules as may be necessary to carry into
effect the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the powers and
jurisdiction conferred upon it by the chapter.
      (2)   (a)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board.
         (b)   He or she shall decide on all points of order and procedure
unless otherwise directed by a majority of the Board.
         (c)   The Chairperson may appoint committees deemed necessary to carry
out the business of the Board.
         (d)   The Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses.
         (e)   The Chairperson's signature shall be the official signature of
the Board and shall appear on all decisions as directed by the Board.
      (3)   (a)   The Vice Chairperson shall serve in the absence of the
Chairperson.
         (b)   He or she shall have all the powers of the Chairperson during
his or her absence, disability or disqualification.
      (4)   The secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings and shall be
responsible for all official correspondence of the Board.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at such other times as the Board may determine.
      (2)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (D)   Voting.
      (1)   All actions of the Board shall be taken by resolution, the vote of
each member being recorded.
      (2)   The majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum to do business
and the concurring vote of three members shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirements, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   No member of the Board shall vote on any matter in which he or she
is personally or financially interested.
   (E)   Minutes and records. The secretary of the Board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question; or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact; and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official action, all of which shall be certified correct
and filed in the village hall and shall be a public record.
   (F)   Witnesses and oaths. The Board shall have the power to subpoena and
require the attendance of witnesses, administer oaths, and compel testimony and
the production of books, papers and other evidence pertinent to any issue
before the Board.
   (G)   Department assistance. The Board may call on the village departments
for assistance in the performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of
such departments to render assistance to the Board as may be required.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.272 GOVERNING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Board shall be governed by the provisions of all applicable state
statutes, local laws, ordinances and rules set forth herein.
   (B)   The Board shall become familiar with all enacted ordinances and laws
of the Village of Marblehead under which it may be expected to act as well as
with applicable state enabling legislation.
   (C)   The Board shall uphold the Zoning Chapter and official zoning map of
Marblehead as adopted and shall serve primarily as a judicial review in the
performance of its duties.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.273 JURISDICTION AND POWERS.
   The Board shall operate so as to carry into affect the powers and
jurisdiction conferred upon it as follows:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator
in the enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   To hear and decide on such conditional uses as the Board is
specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this chapter;
   (C)   To hear and decide upon application for variances under the terms
provided in this chapter;
   (D)   (1)   To interpret the provisions of the Zoning Chapter or map where
there is doubt as to meaning or application.
      (2)   The Board shall have the specific power to:
         (a)   Interpret the precise location of the boundary lines between
zoning districts; and
         (b)   Interpret the classification of a use which is not specifically
mentioned as a part of the use regulations of any zoning district so that it
conforms to a comparable permitted or prohibited use, in accordance with the
intent and purpose of each district;
   (E)   To exercise such other powers as may be granted to the Board by this
chapter, amendment thereto or by the general laws as set forth in the Ohio
Revised Code as amended; and
   (F)   The Board shall not have the power to alter or change the zoning
district classification of any property, nor to make any change to the terms or
intent of this chapter, but does have power to act on those matters where the
chapter provides for judicial review, interpretation, variance or conditional
use as defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.274 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals concerning interpretation or
administration of this subchapter may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer or bureau of the legislative authority of the village affected by
any decision of the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the decision by filing
with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board of Zoning Appeals, a notice of
appeal specifying the ground upon which the appeal is being taken.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.275 FEES.
   See §
154.241.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.276 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken certifies
to the Board of Zoning Appeals after the notice of appeal is filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property.
   (B)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals or by a
court of record on application, with a notice to the Zoning Administrator from
whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.277 VARIANCES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this subchapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this subchapter would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.278 APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   A variance from the terms of this subchapter shall not be granted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals unless and until a written application for a variance
is submitted to the Zoning Administrator and the Board of Zoning Appeals
containing:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of applicants;
   (B)   Legal description of property;
   (C)   Description of nature of variance requested;
   (D)   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      (1)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      (2)   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this subchapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this subchapter;
      (3)   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
      (4)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter, to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district; and
   (E)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and directly
across the street from the parcel(s) upon which the variance or appeal is being
requested, including the tax mailing address of the property owners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.279 GUIDELINES FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   (A)   There are two types of variances which the village may grant:
      (1)   An area variance; and
      (2)   A use variance.
   (B)   The factors to be considered by the Board differ for the two types of
variances.
      (1)   Area variance.
         (a)   1.   An area variance is a departure from the provisions of the
Zoning Chapter usually relating to setbacks, side yards, height, frontage/lot
width and lot size.
            2.   These variances relate to the physical characteristics of the
property.
            3.   Strict enforcement of the zoning requirements for the specific
lot would present "practical difficulties," basically making the property
unusable.
         (b)   The factors or standards to be considered and weighed for an
area variance include, but are not limited to the following:
            1.   Whether the property in question will yield a reasonable
return or whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the
variance;
            2.   Whether the variance is substantial;
            3.   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance;
            4.   Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services (for example, water, sewer, garbage);
            5.   Whether the property owner purchased the property with
knowledge of the zoning restriction;
            6.   Whether the property owner's predicament feasibly can be
obviated through some method other than a variance; and
            7.   Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirements
would be observed and substantial justice done by granting the variance.
      (2)   Use variance.
         (a)   1.   A use variance involves the development or conversion of
land for a use not permitted in the specific zoning district.
            2.   The factors or standards applied to a use variance are those
related to the concept of "unnecessary hardship."
         (b)   1.   A use variance must not be contrary to the public interest
and the Board must ensure that the spirit of the Zoning Chapter is observed.
            2.   In other words, the use requested is consistent and harmonious
to the existing uses.
            3.   In addition, all of the following conditions must also be
found to exist:
               a.   The special circumstances or conditions applying to the
building or land in question are peculiar to such lot or property and do not
apply generally to other land or buildings in the vicinity and were not created
by the applicant;
               b.   The granting of the application is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right and not merely to
serve a convenience to the application; and
               c.   The authorizing of the variance will not impair an adequate
supply of light and air to adjacent property or unreasonably increase the
congestion in public streets, or increase the danger of fire or imperil the
public safety or unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the surrounding areas, or in any way impair the health, safety,
convenience or general welfare of the inhabitants of the village.
   (C)   Summary.
      (1)   In either type of variance request, the variance as granted shall
be the minimum variance necessary to accomplish the reasonable use of the land
or building.
      (2)   The granting of a variance runs with the land and is not approved
for the present landowner only.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.280 CONDITIONS IMPOSED BY THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to impose additional conditions and
safeguards other than those stated in the Zoning Chapter when granting
variances and conditional uses.
   (B)   Such additional conditions shall be reasonable and necessary to
promote and preserve the public safety, general welfare and economic viability
of the neighborhood and community and shall be imposed solely for the purpose
of minimizing the effect of the variance or conditional use on surrounding
property and the community as a whole.
   (C)   Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance or conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and punishable under §
154.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.281 LAPSES OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance, once granted, shall not be withdrawn or changed unless
there is a change of circumstances, or if, after the expiration of 12 months,
no construction has taken place in accordance with the terms and conditions for
which the variance was granted.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall give a notice in writing, and 30 days
thereafter the variance shall be deemed null and void and all regulations
governing the premises in question shall revert to those in effect before the
variance was granted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.282 PUBLIC HEARING BY THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing within 40 days after
the receipt of an application for an appeal or variance from the Zoning
Administrator or an applicant.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 154.283 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   (A)   Before holding the public hearing, notice of such hearing shall be
placed in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village at least
ten days before the date of the hearing by the Chairperson of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing,
and the nature of the proposed appeal or variance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.284 NOTICE.
   (A)   Before holding the public hearing, notice of such hearing shall be
mailed by the Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Appeals, by first class mail,
at least ten days before the day of the hearing to all owners of property
within, contiguous to, and directly across the street from such area proposed
for the appeal or variance to the address of such owners appearing on the
County Auditor's current tax list or the Treasurer's mailing list.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the same information as required of notices
published in newspapers as specified in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.285 PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENT FOR APPROVAL OF CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are
appearing daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities that each
specific use must be considered individually.
   (B)   These specific uses as they are conditionally permitted under the
provisions of §§
154.230 et seq., shall follow the procedures and requirements set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.286 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Appeals by at least one owner or lessee of
property for which such conditional use is proposed.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Description of existing use;
      (4)   Present zoning district;
      (5)   Description of proposed conditional use;
      (6)   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the Board may require to determine
if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirement of this
chapter;
      (7)   A narrative statement evaluating the economic effects on adjoining
property; the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and
vibration or adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with
adjacent and other properties in the district; and the relationship of the
proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan;
      (8)   A list of all property owners within, contiguous to, and directly
across the street from the parcel(s) upon which the conditional use is
requested, including the tax mailing addresses of the property owners; and
      (9)   Such other information as may be required.
(Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.287 GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL CONDITIONAL USES.
   In addition to the specific requirements for conditionally permitted uses,
the Board shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each proposed
use in terms of the following standards and shall find adequate evidence
showing that such use at the proposed location:
   (A)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives,
or with the specific objective of the village's Comprehensive Plan and/or the
Zoning Chapter;
   (B)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
   (C)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   (D)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewers, and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   (E)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   (F)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to the economic welfare of the
community;
   (G)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will not be detrimental to any persons, property,
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
   (H)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
streets or roads; and
   (I)   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.288 SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   In granting any conditional use, the Board may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this subchapter.
   (B)   Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the conditional use was granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this subchapter and punishable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.289 PUBLIC HEARING BY THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board shall hold a public hearing within 40 days from the receipt of the
application for a conditional use.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 154.290 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN NEWSPAPER.
   (A)   Before holding the public hearing, notice of such hearing shall be
placed in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village at least
ten days before the date of such hearing by the Chairperson of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing,
and the nature of the proposed conditional use.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.291 NOTICE.
   Before holding the public hearing, written notice of such hearing shall be
mailed by the Chairperson of the Board, by first class mail, at least ten days
before the day of the hearing to all owners of property within, contiguous to,
and directly across the street from such area for the conditional use to the
addresses of such owners appearing on the County Auditor's current tax list or
the County Treasurer's mailing list.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.292 EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   A conditional use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular
conditional use and the permit shall automatically expire if, for any reason,
the conditional use shall cease for more than six months.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.293 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall decide all applications for variances, conditional
uses and appeals within 30 days after the final hearing thereon.
   (B)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the Board's decision and
the findings of fact which were the basis for the Board's determination.
   (C)   (1)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirements, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator
as in its opinion ought to be made in the premises.
      (2)   The decision shall state any conditions and safeguards necessary to
protect the public interest.
   (D)   In reaching a decision, the Board shall be guided by standards
specified in this chapter and community goals and policies so specified.
   (E)   (1)   A certified copy of the Board's decision including all terms and
conditions shall be transmitted to the Zoning Administrator and shall be
binding upon and observed by him or her.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall fully incorporate these same terms
and conditions in the permit to the applicant whenever a permit is authorized
by the Board.
   (F)   All findings and decisions shall be clearly set forth in the minutes
of the Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.294 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS, VILLAGE
COUNCIL AND COURTS ON MATTERS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall first be presented to the Zoning
Administrator, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board only on
appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, and that recourse from
the decision of the Board shall be to the courts as provided by §
154.295 and Ohio R.C. Chapter 713.
   (B)   (1)   It is further the intent of this subchapter that the duties of
the Village Council in connection with this subchapter shall not include
hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement that may
arise; these being the powers of the Board.
      (2)   Under this subchapter, Village Council shall have only the duties
of considering, adopting, or rejecting proposed amendments or the repeal of all
or part of this subchapter, as provided by law and of establishing a schedule
of fees and charges.
   (C)   If, in the course of carrying out the intent of this subchapter and
after review of all appeal cases brought before it, the Board finds a series of
similar irregularities or inequities, it shall be incumbent upon the Board to
inform the Village Council and Planning Commission of these inadequacies in
order that the Zoning Chapter or map may be appropriately amended.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.295 APPEAL TO COURTS.
   A person aggrieved by a decision of the Board may appeal to the Court of
Common Pleas of Ottawa County, Ohio.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in various sections of this chapter) shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case.
      (3)   Each day such violation continues after receipt of a violation
notice, shall be considered a separate offense.
      (4)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (5)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
   (B)   Civil action. In case any building is or is proposed to be located,
erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained or used or
any land is or is proposed to be used in violation of law or of this chapter or
any amendment thereto, the Village Council, the Village Solicitor, the Village
Zoning Administrator or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be
especially damaged by such violation may in addition to other appropriate
action, enter proceeding or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove
such unlawful location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
change, maintenance or use.
   (C)   Remedies cumulative. The exercise of the rights and remedies granted
in this chapter and the above divisions shall in no way preclude or limit the
village or any person from exercising any other right or remedy now or
hereafter granted to them under the laws of Ohio.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   IMPROVEMENTS
      
III.   CONTRACTS, AGREEMENTS AND LEASES
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VII.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
1, 1982      3-8-1982    Annexation of Lots 31, 32 and 33 in Section No. 1 in
                         Danbury Township
                         Annexation of the east line of Section 1, Lot 30 in
8-1986       4-14-1986   the Firelands Survey which bears North 0 degrees 30
                         minutes East
                         Annexation of a portion of Great Lot No. 30 in Section
9, 1986      5-12-1986   No. 1 and annexing the 40-foot and the 20-foot lanes
                         as shown in the Plat of Canvasback Hunting Club,
                         Subdivision A, Plat Book 7, page 26
Res. 1, 1995 6-28-1995   Annexation of property which lies in Lots 19, 28, 29
                         and 30 in Section 1 containing 370 acres
25, 1996     11-14-1996  Annexation of Lots 19, 28, 29 and 30 in Section 1 of
                         the Firelands Survey containing 370 acres
29, 2000     9-14-2000   Annexation of Johnson’s Island
 
TABLE II: IMPROVEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
Res. 8-26-  Widening, straightening and lessening the curves on the Port Clinton-Marblehead
–  1925   Road, also known as Inter-County Highway 440, Section “Marblehead”
Res. 6-11-  Expanding and upgrading three parcels of land of the water treatment plant
1-84 1984
19,  10-9-  Improvement and expansion of three parcels of land located in Lot No. 23, Section
1984 1984   No. 1 for the water treatment plant
12,  6-13-  Installing a six-inch waterline, fire hydrants and any necessary appurtenances to
2006 2006   Harsh Road from Fourth Street to Second Street, Epworth Lane, Fourth Street,
            Wesleyan Drive and Stoutenburg Drive
Res. 1-10-  Granting the application of the Danbury Township Board of Trustees for repair of
1,   2013   a culvert, installation of a cement seawall and shoreline protection at Lake
2013        Point Park, conditioned upon all other permits and leases being obtained
Res. 12-8-  Granting application of Patrick and Linda Waters for placement of shoreline
18-  2021   protection at 527 E. Main Street
2021
Res. 2-9-   Granting application of Erin Shine for placement of a steel and concrete pier at
1-   2022   4000 Memorial Shoreway
2022
Res. 10-12- Granting application of Pleasant Pointe Condominium Association for repair and
16-  2022   replacement of revetment at 123 Glacial Lane
2022
Res. 5-10-  Granting application of Johnson’s Island Road Commission for slope revetment work
8-   2023   on the west side of the Johnson’s Island Causeway
2023         
           
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS, AGREEMENTS, AND LEASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date    Description
No.  Passed
Res. 9-13-   Lease of certain areas of Lakeside and Marblehead Railroad
4,   1954    Company for a parking area
1954
3,   3-12-   Lease of the radar tower to the United States Coast Guard
1979 1979
14   - -     Granting General Telephone Company of Ohio to furnish telephone
             and other communication services
9,   5-14-   Contract with Tele- Media Corporation to provide a community
1984 1984    antenna television system
12,  8-13-   Granting Tele-Media Corporation to do business as a community
1984 1984    antenna television system
6,   5-7-    Granting Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc. to supply natural gas to the
1989 1989    village
16,  2-12-   Contract with Edison Company to provide electricity to the public
1989 1990    streets and roads
9,   4-14-   Agreement with Lakeside Association to acquire its water line
1994 1994    easements, waterlines and appurtenances to Island View
             Subdivision
10,  5-8-    Lease agreement with Air-Touch Cellular for communication devices
1997 1997    to be placed on the village water tower
25,  11-13-  Contract for the installation of waterlines to the newly annexed
1997 1997    areas of approximately 8,900 feet
Res. 12-9-   Contract with Ohio Edison Company to renew existing street
5    1999    lighting
39,  12-10-  Authorizing participation in the Ohio Cooperative Purchasing Act
1992 1992
9,   3-26-   Lease of 2,100 square feet of land adjacent to the water tower
1997 1996    for communications purposes
8,   3-12-   Lease with Nextel West Corp. for lease of 1,200 square feet of
1998 1998    land adjacent to water tower to provide cellular phone services
11,  7-8-    Agreement for cable services
1999 1999
11,  3-9-    Lease agreement with LaFarge Corporation to establish a parking
2000 2000    lot
15,  4-13-   Lease of land with Omnipoint Communications C Operations, LLC for
2000 2000    a communications tower and equipment shelter
Res. 7-12-   Lease with Ohio Department of Natural Resources for use of
3,   2001    submerged lands in Lake Erie
2001
9,   5-11-   Contract with Floyd Browne Group for professional services
2006 2006    regarding water rates
Res. 4-17-
1,   2007    Contract to appoint Kocher & Gillum as solicitors for the village
2007
Res. 4-17-   Agreement to appoint John Kocher, Solicitor, Richard Gillum III
2,   2007    and James Barney, Assistant Solicitors for the village
2007
Res. 1-10-
1,   2008    Contract with State Wide Ford for purchase of police cruiser
2008
Res. 1-22-   Contract with Kelstin, Inc. for the construction of improvements
2,   2009    to the water treatment plant
2009
Res. 12-10-  Contract with Adohr Corp. for the improvements to the Radar Park
10,  2009    Building
2009
14,  10-22-  Cooperative agreement for planning and construction of water
2009 2009    treatment plant development project between the village and the
             Ohio Water Development Authority
Res. 7-22-   Contract with Kwest Group for the State Route 163 Water Line
6,   2010    Project
2010
Res. 8-11-   Empowering the Mayor to enter into a depository agreement with
4,   2011    the Marblehead Bank
2011
Res. 7-26-   Agreement to appoint Richard Gillum III, Solicitor, John. A.
4,   2012    Kocher and James C. Barney, Assistant Solicitors for the village
2012
Res. 7-26-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract to appoint Kocher
5,   2012    & Gillum as Solicitors for the village
2012
Res. 11-29-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an amended contract to
10,  2012    appoint Kocher & Gillum as Solicitors for the village
2012
16,  12-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to accept the highest and best bid to lease
2012 2012    the village property located at 414 West Main Street and 414 1/
             2 West Main Street and to enter into the required lease documents
Res. 9-26-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with CT
7,   2013    Consultants, Inc. for professional services for the design of the
2013         St. Rt. 163 bike path
Res. 8-14-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute all documents necessary to join
2,   2014    the Ohio Public Entity Consortium Healthcare Cooperative
2014
Res. 12-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into any agreements necessary for
7,   2015    obtaining OPWC Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation funds
2015
             Cooperating with the Director of Transportation to protect and
4-   4-25-   restore the storm damaged section of SR 163 within the village,
2018 2018    authorizing the Mayor to execute all necessary documents to
             facilitate the project
Res. 8-28-   Authorizing participation in the ODOT road salt contracts awarded
4-   2019    in 2019
2019
Res. 4-29-   Authorizing participation in the ODOT road salt contracts awarded
2-   2020    in 2020
2020
Res. 2-11-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into agreement with Suvon, LLC d/
2-   2021    b/a FirstEnergy Advisors regarding electric energy consulting
2021         services
Res. 2-11-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a master agreement with a
3-   2021    supplier to provide services to an aggregated group and declaring
2021         an emergency
Res. 3-24-   Authorizing participation in the ODOT road salt contracts awarded
4-   2021    in 2021
2021
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to apply for, accept and enter into a water
6-   8-11-   supply revolving loan account agreement for planning and design
2021 2021    of water facilities and designating a dedicated repayment source
             for the loan
Res. 7-14-   Authorizing the Mayor to contract with CT Consultants for the
7-   2021    final design of the elevated water tank project
2021
Res. 8-25-   Empowering the Mayor to enter into a depository agreement with
10-  2021    the Marblehead Bank
2021
Res. 9-22-   Empowering the Mayor to sign all documents concerning the
15-  2021    cellular tower lease with Crown Castle
2021
Res. 11-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract to appoint Kocher
17-  2021    & Gillum as solicitors for the village
2021
Res. 2-9-    Empowering the Mayor to sign all documents concerning the tower
2-   2022    lease agreement with Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless
2022
Res. 3-30-   Authorizing the Mayor to award contracts relating to the Elliott
3-   2022    Street improvement project
2022
Res. 3-30-   Authorizing participation in the ODOT road salt contracts awarded
4-   2022    in 2022
2022
Res. 4–13- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a water supply revolving loan
5-   2022    account agreement
2022
Res. 5-11-   Authorizing the Mayor to apply for funding assistance from the
6-   2022    2022 Parks and Trails Improvement Grant Program
2022
Res. 5-25-   Authorizing the Mayor to contract with CT Consultants for
7-   2022    preliminary design of the Johnson’s Island Water Main extension
2022         project
Res. 5-25-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a water supply revolving loan
8-   2022    account agreement
2022
Res. 5-25-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract to join the
9-   2022    Houston- Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Program
2022
Res. 8-10-   Authorizing the Mayor to contract with the JDI Group in
12-  2022    connection with the construction phase for the Radar Park Welcome
2022         Center
Res. 1-11-   Authorizing the application for a grant from the Ohio
2-   2023    Environmental Protection Agency for funding assistance to
2023         purchase public water system equipment
Res. 1-11-   Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into a mutual aid
3-   2023    agreement with Ohio Water/Wastewater Agency Response Network
2023
Res. 1-25-   Authorizing the Village Administrator to file an application with
4-   2023    the OSS Solid Waste District for a competitive funding grant
2023
Res. 1-25-   Authorizing the Village Administrator to apply for funding
5-   2023    assistance from the 2023 Parks and Trails Improvement Grant
2023         Program
Res. 4-26-   Authorizing participation in the ODOT road salt contracts awarded
7-   2023    in 2023
2023
Res. 6-14-   Authorizing the Village Administrator to file an application with
10-  2023    the OSS Solid Waste District for a competitive funding grant
2023
            
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
10, 1981 6-15-1981   Granting easements in the public right-of-ways for the
                     Danbury Township Sanitary Sewer Project
8, 1982  6-14-1982   Easement to County Commissioners for the location of a
                     grinder pump station in James Park
16, 1985 7-8-1985    Easement to the Ninth Coast Guard District to construct a
                     communication tower
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. –     11-6-1911   Purchase of a parcel of Lot 22 on the south side of
                         Main Street
3, 1943      11-8-1943   Acceptance of two tracts of land from John James for
                         street and alley purposes
4, 1947      8-11-1947   Acceptance of land from John James to extend Prairie
                         Street
3, 1952      8-11-1952   Acceptance of a 40-foot wide strip of land extending
                         northerly through Vargosick’s Subdivision
5, 1963      6-13-1963   Purchase of 120 feet west of the town hall to extend
                         the town hall
Res. 4, 1971 2-20-1971   Acquiring .55 acres of land in Lot No. 18 in Section 1
                         of the village
                         Purchase of three parcels of land in Lot No. 23 of
9, 1985      6-10-1985   Section No. 1 for the purpose of expanding and
                         improving the water treatment plant
10, 2006     5-11-2006   Sale of Lot Nos. 4 and 5 in Erie View to Harvey
                         MacIvor
8, 2011      7-14-2011   Sale of a house located at 214 E. Main Street to the
                         highest and best bidder
1, 2016      3-23-2016   Purchase of the Mutach Property at 505 West Main
                         Street
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
3-1942       2-9-1942    Changing the name of Main Street to Clemons Drive
5-1942       3-9-1942    Changing the name of Clemmons Street to Stone Street
Res. 6, 1993 11-11-1993  Naming the access road to the James Park Shelter House
                         to Robert Bird Drive
 
TABLE VII: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
3-   9-11-  Vacation of Alexander Road from a point where the Lakeside & Marblehead Railraod
1944 1944   track crosses Alexander Road
4-   10-8-  Vacation of a part of Harsch Road from the intersection of Harsch Road with Main
1945 1945   Street
5-   12-10- Vacation of a part of Harsch Road which extends northwesterly through Gilbert
1945 1945   Street and through Block Number 3 in Biro Subdivision
20,  9-10-  Vacation of a portion of Gilbert Street from Elliot Street to the railroad
1998 1998
28,  12-13- Vacation of a portion of an alley in John H. James Subdivision “B” adjoining
2001 2001   Subdivision Lot Nos. 30 through 37
30-  10-13- Vacation of 230.72 feet of Gilbert Street from its intersection with the north
05   2005   line of Elliot Street to its termination at the south line of the railroad
            right-of-way
6,   7-18-  Vacating an alley between Prairie Street and Church Street
2016 2016
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Editor’s note:
   For references to the Ohio Revised Code contained in Title VII and Title
XIII, see the table located at the beginning of each of those Titles.
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section Code Section
1.01         10.01(A)
1.02         10.02
1.05         10.02
1.14         10.03(C)(1) - (4)
1.15         10.03(C)(5)
1.23         10.05(A), (B)
1.42         10.03(A)
1.43         10.03(B)
1.44         10.02
1.45         10.03(C)(6)
1.46         10.03(D)
1.47         10.18(A)
1.48         10.18(B)
1.49         10.18(C)
1.50         10.07
1.51         10.06(A)
1.52         10.06(B)
1.54         10.04(D)
1.55         10.05(C)
1.56         10.05(D)
1.57         10.04(A)
1.58         10.04(B), (C)
1.59         10.02
701.01       10.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
–        11-6-1911   T.S.O. V
–        8-26-1925   T.S.O. II
4, 1954    9-13-1954   T.S.O. III
4, 1971  2-20-1971   T.S.O. V
1, 1984  6-11-1984   T.S.O. II
3, 1988    3-14-1988   38.01
6, 1993    11-11-1993  T.S.O. VI
1, 1995    6-28-1995   T.S.O. I
5, 1999    12-9-1999   T.S.O. III
2, 2000    - -         39.15
3, 2000    4-13-2000   39.15
1, 2001    2-6-2001    31.04
1, 2007    4-17-2007   T.S.O. III
2, 2007    4-17-2007   T.S.O. III
3, 2001    7-12-2001   T.S.O. III
1, 2008  1-10-2008   T.S.O. III
8, 2008  4-10-2008   Title VII,
                       App. A, § 2
2, 2009  1-22-2009   T.S.O. III
10, 2009   12-10-2009  T.S.O. III
6, 2010    7-22-2010   T.S.O. III
4, 2011    8-11-2011   T.S.O. III
4, 2012  7-26-2012   T.S.O. III
5, 2012    7-26-2012   T.S.O. III
10, 2012   11-29-2012  T.S.O. III
1, 2013    1-10-2013   T.S.O. II
7, 2013    9-26-2013   T.S.O. III
2, 2014    8-14-2014   T.S.O. III
7, 2015    12-9-2015   T.S.O. III
4-2019     8-28-2019   T.S.O. III
2-2020     4-29-2020   T.S.O. III
2-2021     2-11-2021   T.S.O. III
3-2021     2-11-2021   T.S.O. III
4-2021     3-24-2021   T.S.O. III
6-2021     8-11-2021   T.S.O. III
7-2021     7-14-2021   T.S.O. III
10-2021    8-25-2021   T.S.O. III
15-2021    9-22-2021   T.S.O. III
17-2021    11-10-2021  T.S.O. III
18-2021    12-8-2021   T.S.O. II
1-2022     2-9-2022    T.S.O. II
2-2022     2-9-2022    T.S.O. III
3-2022     3-30-2022   T.S.O. III
4-2022     3-30-2022   T.S.O. III
5-2022     4–13-2022 T.S.O. III
6-2022     5-11-2022   T.S.O. III
7-2022     5-25-2022   T.S.O. III
8-2022     5-25-2022   T.S.O. III
9-2022     5-25-2022   T.S.O. III
12-2022    8-10-2022   T.S.O. III
16-2022    10-12-2022  T.S.O. II
2-2023     1-11-2023   T.S.O. III
3-2023     1-11-2023   T.S.O. III
4-2023     1-25-2023   T.S.O. III
5-2023     1-25-2023   T.S.O. III
7-2023     4-26-2023   T.S.O. III
8-2023     5-10-2023   T.S.O. II
10-2023    6-14-2023   T.S.O. III
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
                       154.001 -
                       154.003,
                       154.015 -
                       154.018,
                       154.020 -
                       154.023,
                       154.035 -
                       154.038,
                       154.050 -
                       154.060,
                       154.075 -
                       154.085,
                       154.100 -
                       154.111,
                       154.125 -
                       154.133,
–        - -         154.135,
                       154.145 -
                       154.152,
                       154.165 -
                       154.172,
                       154.185 -
                       154.199,
                       154.210 -
                       154.217,
                       154.230 -
                       154.249,
                       154.252,
                       154.253,
                       154.255,
                       154.270 -
                       154.295,
                       154.999
14         - -         T.S.O. III
3, 1942    2-9-1942    T.S.O. VI
5, 1942    3-9-1942    T.S.O. VI
3, 1943    11-8-1943   T.S.O. V
3, 1944    9-11-1944   T.S.O. VII
4, 1945    10-8-1945   T.S.O. VII
5, 1945    12-10-1945  T.S.O. VII
4, 1947    8-11-1947   T.S.O. V
3, 1952    8-11-1952   T.S.O. V
12, 1958   11-10-1958  31.01 -
                       31.03
12, 1959   5-15-1959   32.02
177, 1959  11-9-1959   91.03
1, 1960    6-11-1960   95.01
                       152.01,
10, 1961   11-13-1961  152.02,
                       152.99
                       152.01 -
7, 1962    9-10-1962   152.03,
                       152.99
5, 1963    6-13-1963   T.S.O. V
1, 1965    3-8-1965    30.01,
                       30.02
3, 1965    7-12-1965   91.05
8, 1966    9-12-1966   91.06
11, 1974   7-8-1974    94.01
3, 1979    3-12-1979   T.S.O. III
10, 1981   6-15-1981   T.S.O. IV
1, 1982    3-8-1982    T.S.O. I
8, 1982    6-14-1982   T.S.O. IV
9, 1984    5-14-1984   T.S.O. III
12, 1984   8-13-1984   T.S.O. III
19, 1984   10-9-1984   T.S.O. II
9, 1985    6-10-1985   T.S.O. V
16, 1985   7-8-1985    T.S.O. IV
8, 1986    4-14-1986   T.S.O. I
9, 1986    5-12-1986   T.S.O. I
9, 1988    3-14-1988   38.04
6, 1989    5-7-1989    T.S.O. III
16, 1989   2-12-1990   T.S.O. III
                       Title VII,
11, 1990   6-11-1990    
                       App. A, § 1
13, 1990   9-10-1990   37.01 -
                       37.14
14, 1990   9-10-1990   37.20 -
                       37.33
                       151.01 -
                       151.07,
                       151.20,
                       151.21,
20, 1991   11-11-1991  151.35 -
                       151.38,
                       151.50,
                       151.51,
                       151.99
20, 1992   8-13-1992   38.05
39, 1992   12-10-1992  T.S.O. III
9, 1994    4-14-1994   T.S.O. III
9, 1997    3-26-1996   T.S.O. III
25, 1996   11-14-1996  T.S.O. I
5, 1997    2-13-1997   38.03
10, 1997   5-8-1997    T.S.O. III
25, 1997   11-13-1997  T.S.O. III
26, 1997   11-13-1997  Title XIII, App. A, § 1
5, 1988    2-12-1998   92.05
8, 1998    3-12-1998   T.S.O. III
20, 1998   9-10-1998   T.S.O. VII
11, 1999   7-8-1999    T.S.O. III
                       154.004,
–        2-10-2000   154.019,
                       154.282,
                       154.289
6, 2000    2-10-2000   91.04
11, 2000   3-9-2000    T.S.O. III
15, 2000   4-13-2000   T.S.O. III
29, 2000   9-14-2000   T.S.O. I
31, 2000   10-12-2000  11.01
6, 2001    3-8-2001    110.01
                       153.001 -
                       153.008,
                       153.020 -
                       153.024,
                       153.040 -
                       153.064,
                       153.075 -
                       153.093,
18, 2001   6-14-2001   153.105 -
                       153.139,
                       153.150 -
                       153.153,
                       153.185 -
                       153.190,
                       153.205,
                       153.206,
                       153.999
30, 2001   11-8-2001   38.02
28, 2001   12-13-2001  T.S.O. VII
6, 2002    5-9-2002    151.35 -
                       151.37
27, 2002   9-12-2002   154.256
3, 2003    4-10-2003   92.01
13, 2003   5-8-2003    32.01
23, 2003   9-11-2003   35.01 -
                       35.09
26, 2003   12-1-2003   91.02,
                       91.99
28, 2003   1-8-2004    35.10
                       92.01 -
29, 2003   1-8-2004    92.04,
                       92.99
14, 2004   7-8-2004    151.37
27, 2004   11-9-2004   50.01
19, 2004   11-11-2004  90.02,
                       90.99
18, 2004   12-9-2004   37.01 -
                       37.14
                       111.01 -
32, 2005   1-12-2005   111.09,
                       111.99
3, 2005    1-13-2005   110.01
14, 2005   2-10-2005   34.01 -
                       34.07
16, 2005   5-12-2005   36.01,
                       36.02
24, 2005   8-11-2005   154.241
27, 2005   9-8-2005    39.25
30, 2005   10-13-2005  T.S.O. VII
2, 2006    1-12-2006   32.15 -
                       32.18
                       151.01 -
                       151.07,
                       151.20,
                       151.21,
3, 2006    2-9-2006    151.35 -
                       151.38,
                       151.50,
                       151.51,
                       151.99
                       Title XIII,
35, 2005   2-9-2006     
                       App. A, § 1
9, 2006    5-11-2006   T.S.O. III
10, 2006   5-11-2006   T.S.O. V
12, 2006   6-13-2006   T.S.O. II
15, 2006   8-24-2006   32.19
                       50.15 -
18, 2006   9-28-2006   50.37,
                       50.99
4, 2007    4-17-2007   93.01 -
                       93.07
                       111.01 -
5, 2007    4-17-2007   111.09,
                       111.99
                       151.01 -
                       151.07,
                       151.20,
                       151.21,
6, 2007    5-10-2007   151.35 -
                       151.38,
                       151.50,
                       151.51,
                       151.99
                       111.01 -
8, 2007    5-24-2007   111.09,
                       111.99
                       Title XIII,
9, 2007    8-9-2007     
                       App. A, § 1
12, 2007   8-9-2007    Adopting Ordinance
13, 2007   10-11-2007  Title XIII, App. A, § 2
3, 2008    1-10-2008   110.02
4, 2008    2-14-2008   40.01 -
                       40.06
8, 2008    4-10-2008   91.06
13, 2008   8-14-2008   40.20 -
                       40.22
18, 2008   12-11-2008  154.004
                       112.01 -
19, 2008   1-22-2009   112.30,
                       154.146
                       154.127,
2, 2009    2-12-2009   154.147,
                       154.166
3, 2009    2-12-2009   154.125,
                       154.126
7, 2009    4-9-2009    154.039
9, 2009    10-22-2009  40.30
10, 2009   8-13-2009   Adopting Ordinance
14, 2009   10-22-2009  T.S.O. III
                       154.004,
                       154.019,
7, 2011    6-23-2011   154.109,
                       154.126,
                       154.146
8, 2011    7-14-2011   T.S.O. V
8, 2012  6-14-2012   51.01
9, 2012    6-14-2012   91.05
10, 2012   6-14-2012   Adopting Ordinance
16, 2012   12-13-2012  T.S.O. III
5, 2014    8-14-2014   40.40 -
                       40.46
7, 2014    1-29-2015   90.01
                       154.004,
                       154.019,
6, 2015    6-10-2015   154.021,
                       154.250,
                       154.251,
                       154.254
8, 2015    6-24-2015   39.26,
                       39.27
9, 2015    8-12-2015   39.27
                       96.01 -
11, 2015   9-9-2015    96.03,
                       96.99
                       111.04,
12, 2015   1-13-2016   113.01 -
                       113.03,
                       113.99
1, 2016    3-23-2016   T.S.O. V
5, 2016    5-25-2016   39.25
6, 2016    7-18-2016   T.S.O. VII
4, 2017    4-12-2017   37.40 -
                       37.42
6, 2017    6-28-2017   114.01
8, 2017    7-26-2017   Title VII,
                       App. A, § 3
9, 2017    8-23-2017   154.019
10, 2017   11-8-2017   37.15,
                       37.99
12, 2017   11-29-2017  Adopting Ordinance
14, 2017   12-27-2017  37.34
4-2018     4-25-2018   T.S.O. III
8-2018     10-24-2018  154.019,
                       154.241
9, 2018    10-24-2018  Adopting Ordinance
3-2019     10-9-2019   40.50
3-2020     6-24-2020   Adopting Ordinance
3-2021     5-12-2021   Adopting Ordinance
6-2021     12-8-2021   91.02
1-2022     2-9-2022    32.03
3-2022     3-9-2022    91.04
                       154.053,
                       154.054,
15-2022    10-12-2022  154.076,
                       154.078,
                       154.079,
                       154.126
16-2022    10-12-2022  Title XIII,
                       App. A, § 3
                       150.001 -
                       150.010,
                       150.020,
                       150.030 -
                       150.043,
17-2022    10-12-2022  150.050 -
                       150.060,
                       150.070 -
                       150.075,
                       150.085 -
                       150.087
                      
 
 
